subject: Transcript of E112- Is Davos a grift? Plus: globalist mishaps, debt ceilings, TikTok's endgame & more,In this episode of the All In Podcast, Jason, Chamath, Friedberg and Sacks discuss the top Republican candidates for the 2024 election and their major platform issues. They then move on to the World Economic Forum in Davos, evaluating the current US free trade policy. After that, they discuss rebuilding infrastructure while avoiding the debt ceiling and immigration reform before delving into the topic of TikTok's endgame in the US. Lastly, they explore the intersection of Pharma and AI, and the most successful AI business models."

Chamath: Jaykall, you have a really long nose hair on your left.

Jason: This one here, yeah you, Chamath? Can you see it? Nick, can you see it? See that you can see?

Friedberg: It'll take care of it. Every...

Sacks: Show we have this issue?

Chamath: Every show he's got all this, like...

Jason: I'm getting old, man, so I feel like Sacks, you gotta get a grooming tool.

Chamath: I am tired of treasure hunting.

Friedberg: Landscape makes one, I'm going to get it. Yeah, just look in the mirror. Can you come over on the way to Parker Friedberg and help me with my landscaping?

Friedberg: You're not coming to poker. Jason, can you justify why Manscaped can come too?

Friedberg: Alright, Jaykall, you're going to be a participant today. The world's greatest moderator is taking a week off to allow his voice to recuperate so he can come back with his usual mid-sentence interruptions and excellent moderating tactics. Next week, we'll miss you with this Foghorn Leghorn moderation.

Jason: Welcome to the top 20 podcasts! You're welcome. Welcome to the top 20 podcasts in the world. Okay.

Sacks: Hold on. Who are you thinking of? You've been doing this for 10 years, and I just walked in here off the street and all of a sudden we're top 20?

Jason: Yeah, let me explain something to you. Number one blog in the world, I created it with my guys at Gadget. Okay, top five magazine in the world, then I do a podcast with you, three idiots, and all of a sudden I dropped down to top 20 in this medium.

Sacks: Drop? What are you talking about? Exactly a drop? This has been A/B tested?

Jason: No, I mean This Week in Startups.

Sacks: Embarrassing, but look at the twist of radiance compared to ours.

Jason: This Week in Startups is about startups. It is a niche audience by design and it's the number one startup podcast in the world.

Sacks: That's what you wanted this show to be?

Jason: Yes, this show is about all topics.

Sacks: Every time we try to talk politics you're like it's too much politics.

Sacks: Let's focus on narrow legalistic technician.

Jason: True, we had this discussion, Sacks, and I said we should always do the top story of the week even if it's politics.

Sacks: And now you're taking credit for my insight about Mclaughlin group. I saw you on some podcast. Who was it?

Jason: I absolutely designed this podcast around Mclaughlin group. The fact that you said Mclaughlin group.

Jason: Okay, it's possible for two people to have the same idea.

Sacks: We both grew up on The McLaughlin Group, which is why we're both cantankerous assholes.

Friedberg: Moderator intervention. Cut it out. No one is individually responsible for this podcast; it was Tim Ferriss. Yeah, Tim Ferriss.

Sacks: Here's what happened. So, I was on YouTube and, um, you know, I'm not gonna watch some two-hour-long podcast with Jaykall, of course, but for some reason, for some reason, the clip, the 10-minute clip of the video is called the origin of the podcast.

Friedberg: I can't stand when he does that.

Sacks: So I'm like, okay, I gotta watch this in the partnership agreement. He said, 'Here's the party line and Jaykall will not stick with going to recreate this.' I gotta see this alternative reality that Jaykall is trying to create about the origin of the I, wrote I wrote, history, yes. And I changed the origin story that you signed up to. Are you saying you changed the origin story?

Friedberg: It remains the same. You call me after seeing the origin story that he told Tim Ferriss, which is like a 10-minute story of how he created the whole thing. The concept is based on McLaughlin group, which concept is obviously by default how I moderate the program, is by my design. Yes, you didn't come up with this concept, to your chagrin? Of course I did. No, I came up with the name 'All In' number one. Number two was his idea to tape a pod because he came out of it. Anyway, who cares, the pod's here. It's successful. Why do you keep going on podcasts telling everyone that you're the mastermind of the All In Pod?

Jason: People are saying Jaykall, other podcasters, I'll explain to you. Other podcasters are in all of my ability to moderate you three misanthropic malcontents. You did not have the idea for the force and based on McLaughlin group that happened spontaneously as a result of the fact that no Friedberg was I think the first guest, I was the second guest, then we did the four of us together. That was not your jam session that worked, okay?

Friedberg: Fine. The way the way I moderate this is of note to the world's greatest podcasters. They wanna know Jaykall, how do you take three misanthropic malcontents and make them actually palatable to the world? And I say, 'You know what, because I am the world's greatest moderator and someone like Tim Ferriss wants to...'

Chamath: Excuse me. What makes me a misanthropic malcontent?

Jason: Just your behavior and worldview. What is it that describes my behavior and what is my worldview?

Chamath: Your absolute contempt for humanity. You know everybody knows you're amazing. It's a joke. It's called a joke.

Friedberg: Now you set him off, Jaykall. You really hurt him; you should apologize.

Jason: It's called the joke. I think you guys are wonderful., I think you all were.

Chamath: Wonderful. I may be misanthropic, but malcontent I'm not.

Jason: No, Sacks and Friedberg, that's for sure.

Friedberg: Malcontent? I'm pretty damn happy.

Jason: You're happy? The last descriptor anybody who knows you would ascribe to Friedberg was happy?

Chamath: No, I would say no. I think he's happy. He's anxious, but he's happy. He's anxious, but happy.

Jason: Did you see the roast? That man wasn't very happy.

Friedberg: That was really funny. It was tearing you up.

Chamath: That was, yes, that was pure rage.

Sacks: No, I think when Friedberg tries to be funny, it comes out kind of mean. Yeah, maybe that's it.

Friedberg: The only person who sets me off and makes me unhappy is you, Jason. I mean...

Jason: Maybe the four of us should go to therapy, or we could keep recording this podcast every week. Which would be cheaper? I think it would be cheaper for us to just talk it out.

Chamath: I for one am thankful to whoever gave you whatever sickness you have that prevents you from talking this week.

Friedberg: You're talking a lot for someone who can't talk coming at me. I'm sick, so be nice to me.

Chamath: While we're talking about all kinds of random stuff, the number two thing I see in the 'What's Happening' tab on Twitter right now is how Ron DeSantis is getting blasted for banning AP African American Studies because he thinks it falls under the 'Stop Woke' Act. The headlines are going absolutely nuclear on Twitter right now. Here are some of the quotes: 'Shocking: Ron DeSantis has banned the teaching of AP African American Studies in Florida. Florida has gone from 'Don't Say Gay' to 'Don't Say Black'. Next tweet claiming it violates the 'Stop Woke' Act and has no educational value. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis has banned AP African American Studies from schools.

Sacks: Let me make a prediction right now. This will all rebound to his advantage. The same people who said that he was doomed for basically not instituting COVID lockdowns were proven correct. Then they said that this bill that prohibited the teaching of gender fluidity to five-year-olds was the 'Don't Say Gay' bill; 70% of Florida supports that, so that will rebound to his advantage. I don't know the story behind this particular course, but if the question is whether C.R.T. is going to be funded by the state and he's preventing that, again, I think that'll be a 70% popular issue. So let's just wait and see how this plays out.

Chamath: Fair enough. I just wanted to mention my spread trade. It might be tough to be the frontrunner in the Republican nomination process in January of 2022. It's starting.

Sacks: Yeah, to be the frontrunner in either party is a challenge. But I'd say the bigger threat to the Santis is a new poll where Trump came out on top, so Trump is still his biggest threat. Yeah. So, unfortunately, Jaykall may be right that the Republicans may do something stupid here and nominate a candidate who is, I think, less electable than Santas.

Jason: I actually don't take any joy in it.

Chamath: I think Nikki Haley is going to come out of nowhere and win this thing.

Jason: Well, it's possible, you know. I really would like to see some non-political, non-career politicians run for office. The Bloomberg type, you know. It feels like these career politicians are just really, really bad at executing.

Sacks: You know, who likes Nikki Haley? Democrats, you guys? Why do we like her? I mean, she's polarizing. She's a safe establishment Republican who basically isn't going to put up any fierce resistance to what the Davos crowd wants to do.

Chamath: I don't think that's true. I think she was pretty likely to get the Republican nomination.

Chamath: I don't think she cares about Davos people saving her life. I think she is a moderate, reasonable person who had to govern in a Southern state and got everyone on board. That's pretty impressive. She's a pro-life person who negotiated a 20-week support for abortion in 2014. So this is a person who knows how to get things done. South Carolina happens to be the state that is actually at the leading edge of climate transition. She's had more jobs and more money come into a Southern red state from people and companies willing to build for climate change than any other state in the country.

Chamath: I don't know. She seems normal and sane, not an idiot.

Friedberg: Would you vote for her?

Chamath: Absolutely, 100 percent!

Sacks: Yes, that's interesting. Absolutely.

Chamath: She's young, and her parents had a small business, so she was familiar with the struggles of running a business. It's tough to be successful at all of those levels, but she managed to do it. How did she, as a brown woman, get elected governor of South Carolina and do a lot of really good stuff? That's tough. I think she deserves a close look, and she's the only one who didn't back down to Trump. She was able to play the game, manipulate him, get him on her side, and then still tell him to go pound sand. That's pretty cool.

Sacks: Well, a lot of governors managed to do that. I'm saying she went to the United Nations and did what she needed to do there. That was an important role at the time.

Sacks: Actually, Nikki Haley has expressly said she will not run if Trump runs. So, she has bowed to Trump's wishes.

Jason: She wanted to be his Vice President, right? Like she was trying to replace Pence, right? That was her plan.

Sacks: Maybe it's a smart strategy, but she said she won't run against Trump. The main alternative to Trump and the Republican Party is Santos, and then I'd say the number three in the Republican Party after Trump and Santos is Glenn Youngkin right now. Based on what metrics? Based on interest in the party and I've talked to people, and I think the polling will eventually reflect this. He's very talented. Jaykall You talked about appealing to independents. He was able to win a blue state; remember, Virginia went for Biden by 10 points, and Youngkin was able to win that state. If you ever listen to Kim's campaign, he's a very talented campaigner.

Chamath: I think Youngkin is very talented, don't get me wrong. And I think he would be a credible candidate for president. The thing is, he hasn't been in the job for more than 18 months, so he hasn't done anything. If it does boil down to it, it may not matter, because Obama was a senator for two years or something. But if Republicans demand some credentials, I think Trump and DeSantis will attack Yank more viciously in a presidential primary than they attacked Haley on the dimension of having no experience, and it will be hard for him to back it up.

Sacks: This is one final point you know to

Chamath: steal the march on the other side. That's

Friedberg: what they would say. Final point. We have to get

Sacks: the final point. Virginia has this unusual one-term limit on governors. So, you know he's got no choice but to make a play in 2024 because he's going to be turned out anyway.

Friedberg: Okay, Jaykall, as a lifelong independent who has only ever voted Democrat, which of these 25 Republicans would you vote for?

Jason: To be clear, which Republican?

Friedberg: So, which of these candidates do you think is best?

Sacks: Republican? Well, when I was 12, I remember learning that three times three is nine.

Jason: I would like somebody who's younger and has been influenced by your framing of a person who can control the budget and reduce spending. I don't think that's the most pressing risk we have right now. So, I'm leaning towards voting for a single issue in this presidential election. I think we need somebody younger who won't bankrupt the country. The more these candidates talk about social issues instead of economic ones, the more I think they're not the right person for the job. We have a serious financial crisis on our hands and we need to focus on financial issues, not social ones. That's where I stand.

Sacks: Excellent point. So, I assume then you support the Republicans in this looming budget showdown?

Jason: Actually, yes, I do think we should hold the line on spending.

Sacks: So you support the Republicans voting 'no' on raising the debt ceiling?"

Jason: Yeah, I actually do. I think we should start pumping the brakes on spending, and I do think the Tea Party, now that doesn't mean I like those candidates, they're kind of whack jobs actually. But

Chamath: You think George Santos is a whack job? Listen.

Jason: It's the Wack Pack. The Republican Party has turned into some crazy Howard Stern Wack Pack. Sacks is appalled by it. He just can't

Friedberg: Some elements of both parties. Look.

Chamath: Would you ever invite DeSantis to your house? Who would you invite? Actually.

Jason: Have a real legitimate question? Who would you be willing to host a dinner for?

Chamath: Not a fundraising dinner, but just invite to the house? You can pick between two people: Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez or Jorge Campos. Who would you pick?

Sacks: Meet and talk to an O.C., of course, because it would be interesting. Do I want to fundraise for her? No, but

Chamath: No, no, I'm not asking for fundraising. Who

Jason: Just let in the front door unlocked? The front door for

Sacks: The front door to see what

Chamath: Would you do to George? Would you not even return the email if he said, "David, I'm in town?"

Jason: I wouldn't let him out for dinner.

Sacks: I wouldn't want to deal with him; he might steal the silverware or something. It's so crazy; I mean, it's so nuts.

Friedberg: Hold on, hold on, hold on; we have to get started as your moderator. I'm going to try and keep us on track. Good luck. You know, it's an energetic day. I appreciate my co-host's recognition for supporting the Republicans in this budget showdown. I mean, I'm like, blown away.

Friedberg: I think it's great. As you guys know, it's my number one concern on Earth today. The importance of this topic really needs to rise above politics.

Jason: Of all the things you said Friedberg in the last six months on this program, it's the one thing that stuck with me. Now I realize it's the most important thing for this country: fiscal responsibility, austerity measures, looking at how we're spending money, immigration, economic velocity, employment, and competing on the world stage with a solid balance sheet. That's how you compete.

Friedberg: I think it rises above social issues and climate change, don't you? You can't address climate change, social issues, infrastructure, or unemployment unless we have the ability to operate as a country over the long term and have the continuing credit of the United States dollar. That's why I think it's so important.

Jason: Friedberg, I'm dealing with startups I have right now and I tell them the balance sheet is how you compete. If your balance sheet is flipped upside down and you're going to be out of business in nine months, you're not competing with the other two companies in your sector. You have to have a strong balance sheet, take the austerity measures, make the cuts, and then compete with a strong balance sheet. It's just so obvious that this country's balance sheet is getting flipped upside down and we are going to have so many, yeah, very complex second and third order effects with the interest payments.

Chamath: If you value austerity, if you look back in history and ask the prime ministers or presidents of various countries, particularly First World countries, that have had an impact in implementing austerity, you know what the unifying thing is? Women do a much better job than men. Okay, if you want austerity, you're better off with Margaret Thatcher than with a dude like Nikki Haley. I think look...

Friedberg: It's a very hard position to be in as a politician because you have to position your objective as one of taking things away. And the primary way to get elected in a democracy, just like in junior high when you run for president of the junior high class, is to promise your constituents something they don't have today. Whatever the issue is of the day, whatever the issue of the decade, it's all about what I'm going to give you that you don't have today. To flip that conversation around, we all have to sacrifice together for the long-term viability of our economic prosperity. That is a very hard platform to run on when someone on the other side of the podium is saying they're going to give you these 10 things. It's very hard to get elected, and that's why democracies ultimately eat themselves. I forgot who said it, but ultimately all democracies end up realizing they can vote themselves all the money, and then you have this big cycle...

Jason: Republicans did the most brilliant thing ever recently. They moved from 'Stop the Steal' to 'Stop the Spend'. This is a genius thing they stumbled into. Nobody wants to hear them talking about the election being stolen; that's complete nonsense. But 'Stop the Spend' - we all understand that everybody is seeing it in their own personal balance sheets, in their companies, in their families, with their mortgage payments, college tuition bills, and car payments going from $400 to $700. They're seeing what variable interest does. We have variable interest debt; this stuff is going to skyrocket, whether it's Elon's payments for Twitter or your payments for your mortgage or our country's payments for our debt. We have to stop the spend.

Friedberg: Yeah, but guys, let's just continue the conversation and talk a little bit about this World Economic Forum gathering that took place in Davos. I know you guys wanted to talk about it this week.

Sacks: Because of intellectual honesty, I'm like blown away right now.

Friedberg: Because he's sick. Okay, so look, you know I'm always trying to get the best out of the budget conversation, as it relates also to the global economy and growth. So, Davos took place over this past week, just so everyone knows, and I remember working at Google in 2004, I remember how exciting it was for the executives to kind of start to transition into the Davos stage. It became this moment where you're kind of finally on the world stage; it's an exciting moment for CEOs, for world leaders, for global economists to get together, talk about the state of the global economy, where the world is headed, what we can and should be doing about it. And Davos is also this place of pride and prestige for being invited and being a part of the 'party', the global elite party, as some people are now calling it, and that's what I think is the important conversation, is that the World Economic Forum gathering in Davos has recently been cast as this gathering of the global elites, those who are trying to take control and run the world as they see fit. And Sacks, I'd love your point of view on how that transition has happened. Because one of the important ways that the Davos gathering has been cast, and the World Economic Forum has been cast, is in the negative light of being globalists, and globalism has had a really important role in driving global economic growth and prosperity, and it has had these adverse effects in the U.S. as we've seen with wealth inequality, loss of jobs, offshoring, gutting of industries, and so on. I think that there's a really important way that Davos has been politicized, but the risk of that is significant, because if we do lean into this globalist notion and say it's all about elites trying to take control of our world and we all become isolationists, that countries around the world can suffer deeply from the economic consequences of that shift. So, maybe Sacks, you can kick this off, especially in light of our conversation today about the need for economic growth and the reduction of global debt to support, you know, a more prosperous world in the future. This idea that right now we're talking about Davos and the World Economic Forum as a gathering of global elites, and maybe Sacks, you can kind of give us the history and the point of view on how that.

Sacks: Well, it's a meeting of global business and government leaders. So, they are the elites; I mean, you add them all together and they do control a substantial portion of the world economy and most of the nations with the biggest economies. So, there's no question these are some of the most important people in the world. A bunch of the articles coming out of Davos reported the somber mood and tone of the conference. The level of anxiety and worry was very high, and I think that, for a brief moment, it looked like these people were staring in the mirror and realizing that their management of the global economy over the last couple of decades has been a bit of a disaster. I mean, you do have ruinous deficits and debts piling up in the U.S. and across the world, something like 350% debt to GDP globally. So, we've talked about that; you've got this war in Ukraine that I and many people around the world think was easily avoidable and was a diplomatic failure. You're coming off of two years of badly botched COVID mismanagement, where the governments of the world pursued a horrible policy on COVID and made everything worse. You've got decades of energy policy promoted by the World Economic Forum, where they want to get people off fossil fuels and natural gas and get them onto less dense, less reliable energy, including promoting things like organic farming in Sri Lanka, which we talked about on the show, caused the economy to collapse. You've got the World Economic Forum promoting ideas like you're gonna own nothing in the year 2030 and you're gonna be eating insects because no one should be eating meat. So, you've got these like wacky, extreme, you know, environmentalist ideas and anti-capitalist, anti-property ideas coming out of Davos. So, I think the whole thing has been a bit of a disaster, and for a brief moment, it looked like these people, again, were self-reflecting on their role in creating these disasters. But, of course, the tone quickly shifted to blaming disinformation on social media as the root cause of all these problems, as opposed to their decades of decision-making running, you know, the leading nations of the world and the leading companies in the world, and I think that the blame is properly put not on social media but on these leaders for making, you know, bad decisions.

Friedberg: Do you believe that global trade has been beneficial to the US over the last 30 years, or has it been net negative? We can see the obvious consequences of global trade, such as industries being gutted in the US, and now we're trying to bring them back, which is becoming very expensive and ultimately leads to the inflation of goods and services.

Friedberg: So, as you look at the positive agenda of the World Economic Forum over the last 30 years, which has been about improving global trade and global relations to enable global trade, are you an anti-globalist? Do you find yourself falling more into that camp as you see and hear more of what comes out of Davos and from organizations like them?

Sacks: Well, all economic prosperity comes from trade. If we didn't have trade, we would all be subsistence farmers and hunters and gatherers. We specialize in something and then create an abundance of it to trade for the rest of our necessities. The issue is that trade not only creates prosperity, it creates dependencies because you're dependent on the people you're trading with. It also has distributional effects in terms of geopolitical consequences. For example, trading with China has created some prosperity, but it has also hollowed out the American manufacturing sector while making China very rich, which has turned China into a major geopolitical competitor for the United States. So, I'm not a free trade fanatic. I understand the way that trade creates wealth, but I think it can also create these downsides that have to be managed. The fact of the matter is that this unfettered free trade ideology contained the seeds of its own destruction because all the revisionist powers who are seeking to revise the US-led global order were enriched and built up by the very free trade ideology that neoliberals were promoting.

Sacks: So, this neo-liberal world order has kind of created the seeds of its own destruction. I think that it would have been much smarter for us two decades ago to be much more restrained in the China trade and to not throw open our markets to Chinese products; we basically gave them MFN status. This is back in the early 2000s and it was a bipartisan project and bipartisan decision. But the results of that have been the rapid rise of China at the expense of our manufacturing sectors.

Friedberg: And to the benefit of our consumer class, right? I mean, we do have $600 iPhones because of it and we do have cheap TVs, and there has been a consumer market that's demanded these low-priced goods to live a better life, right?

Sacks: So, yeah, but so everyone gets cheap goods at Target. But in exchange for that, we now have a real peer competitor to the United States which is capable of disrupting, let's say, our primacy in East Asia and, you know, is creating a much more challenging world. So, look, I can understand the reasons why people bought into this two decades ago, but I think that if we had it to do all over again, I think most people would recognize that we should not have given China permanent MFN status and we should have been more temperate in our willingness to throw open our markets to these countries.

Friedberg: Do you think that the World Economic Forum has transitioned into a neo-liberal organization now, promoting neoliberal beliefs that are not connected to the original purpose of enabling and supporting global trade, and creating more prosperity and security around the world?

Chamath: I think it appeals to the insecure overachiever elite. Yeah, nobody building anything really gives a shit about Davos; nobody is thinking about what's going on. Nobody even knows when it happens, so who cares about it? People who like status, and went to fancy schools, and want to feel like they're in the club, and that's how they've made it, is going to this place which, underneath, is a membership organization where people pay based on the number of people that get to go. So is it really that important? Substantively, no, but overachieving surplus elites in the West really value the signal that it represents to other overachieving surplus elites in the West. So that's what Davos is; that's what the Allen and Company conference has become. A lot of these things started off much purer than what they are today, but these are all membership-driven, revenue-generating efforts. In 30 or 40 years, the All In Summit will probably become that, too. It's just the nature of things, so I wouldn't spend so much time focused on a group of people getting together. The funniest thing about Davos that I saw was Zero Hedge, which said that the amount of prostitution is at record levels in Davos. So it just kind of boils down to what it is, which is like any other conference; it just happens to be with more security guards and less security guards. And the same stupid stuff happens at Davos that happens in Vegas at, name your conference, C.E.S. It's just a different kind of attendee. So I think the bigger thing is that we are learning that the world tends to have these policy perspectives that swing the pendulum. And the problem with the pendulum is that it is at extremes, and Sacks is right. We went from an extreme where we were very closed off and we were essentially subsistence farmers; all of us were, and then the pendulum has essentially peaked probably in the mid-teens of this decade, or this century, where we realized too much globalization actually hollows out local economies. So we need to find the equilibrium point, and that inherently has more inflation, that inherently has higher prices, and that inherently has slower progress but more consistent progress that benefits more people. And this is what is so ideologically disruptive to, again, surplus elites because they need the $600 iPhone. The idea that they can't upgrade every year drives them into such a tizzy that they need to export all the jobs, whereas a $1000 iPhone or a $1500 iPhone may just mean that your upgrade cycle is two years. And just ask yourself, how many times have you upgraded as soon as the phone came out, to realize, "Man, this phone is actually worse than the previous version," and it probably could have just waited. And there's a lot of work that actually goes into building these things to actually make them better. So all you're doing is you're giving up optionality; you're allowing your brothers and sisters to struggle to basically feed the profit motives of one company that, in hindsight, doesn't need to happen. So there's an equilibrium, and I think that these next few decades will be about finding it. We have decided it's categorical that that level of globalization that we have had, this unitary, singular, mono-cultural way of thinking about things, is over.

Chamath: And David's right. It's because that system has created too many threats to the hegemony that brought us there. That's a good thing, I think. In general, it will be more prosperity for more people, but it will be slower, and it will create points of friction that are represented in inflation and higher prices.

Friedberg: Right? That's right? So, as Jaykall knows, Chamath points out that, like, if you're upgrading every two years instead of one year, your economy doesn't grow as fast; you have less spending. If the price of things goes up, you have inflation. The net cost of de-globalization is higher prices and lower economic growth. That's just fundamental macroeconomics.

Chamath: That's not true. That's not true because the de-globalization in an individual economy will actually create GDP because you have to rebuild the things that you used to import.

Friedberg: That's right. Yeah. And over a period of time, theoretically, you could catch up and accelerate. But, like, when you weigh this conversation about Davos and globalization and U.S. security against the one we just had—which is why I wanted to talk about this—we're running into a debt crisis, we have limited spending capacity, we have a significant amount of investment needed if we are going to cut global trade ties that we've depended on historically and start to build redundancy. Can we afford this as a country? Can the West afford this given economic slowdowns and inflation right now? And how do we balance kind of these conversations against our domestic challenges?

Jason: Davos has a pretty serious PR problem. They have dubbed themselves, essentially, a self-appointed Illuminati for the rest of us and that they're gonna set some global agenda. I think this year's agenda was like finding the future or defining the future. Nobody asked these people to be in charge and, if you look at what's happened in the world—the chaos of Covid—and you look at what's happened in terms of energy policy in Europe, and then this obsession with social issues and being told, you know, these farmers, these truckers, you're bad people, you're not woke, whatever it is. I think the public looks at Davos as the manifestation of these global elites who are lording over them some master plan, whether it's real or not, that they're not part of and that doesn't take them into consideration and that takes into consideration only their profits. And when you actually peel it back, as Chamath correctly pointed out, Davos is a huge grift. They recruited me to be part of their world leaders 15 years ago after I sold my second company and I met Klaus, the guy who runs it, at some New York Four Seasons event. And then I got the bill and to be a world leader was forty fucking thousand dollars and I was like, "What a global future leader? I don't know what that means, but I'm not giving you forty thousand dollars. You had to pay to be a global future leader and you didn't have to pay for a six-thousand-dollar ticket. At the time, this was forty large and I just thought, you know, this is not for me. Uh, and I think people would much rather see some resiliency in the supply chain, and they would rather see the origins of Covid and why we spent two years in a lockdown. And was that a cover-up of the United States funding gain of research being done in Wuhan? Like, and why are we shutting down nuclear power plants? And what exactly is the energy policy in Germany? People are looking at incompetent elites going to Davos, having a big party, and then setting an agenda for them that they don't understand or want. And I think this is where, you know, the contempt for Davos is peaking this year. And it should, if you're being invited to Davos and other people are not being invited and they don't have a seat at the table and a voice at the table, you can tell that all the journalists there are on an access journalism pass. What does that mean? Access journalism. They get to come there and they get to hang out with elites, if and only if their coverage fits a certain profile. And if you find me the top ten most critical anti-globalization journalists in the world, I can guarantee you that they don't have credentials.

Jason: I think it's like a bankrupt organization that should just be shut down and the people who are going there are involved. No, I think it's culturally bankrupt. I think it's not what the world wants right now. The world wants transparency and the world wants ownership of all the screw-ups, you know, from COVID to energy policy. We want ownership of those issues, not a bunch of elites drinking champagne.

Chamath: I'd rather spend a week with entrepreneurs, or frankly, spend a week with my kids, or even spend a week playing poker with my friends. Of course,

Jason: Let's do it. They're...

Chamath: There are umpteen things that are above the list. So, it's kind of like, let them get together. I think it's fine for them to get together. They should do it. I just think that if you're not there, I wouldn't weigh these things so heavily because it speaks more to your own insecurity than it does to their actual influence on things.

Friedberg: Yeah, the term "elite" is an interesting one. You know, companies need a CEO to run the company; it's not run by 10,000 employees, and governments need a president to oversee the government. I think the idea that some small number of people that are in charge getting together is now being cast as an "elite gathering," and elitism in itself is the failure. I don't think it's an elite gathering. I think it's very important to get this nuance right. It's a gathering of elites, and that's very different than an "elite gathering. An elite gathering is when, like, Michael Jordan, LeBron James, and Steph Curry get together and work on their basketball game. That's an elite gathering. A gathering of elites is what's happening in Davos.

Friedberg: But they are the CEOs of their companies and the leader of their countries.

Sacks: So, I would differentiate between the people who are merely attending and paying the $40,000, who are likely a bunch of hangers-on.

Jason: It's not $250, by the way, it's $250,000.

Sacks: Yeah. Anyone willing to pay that much is obviously very insecure. By the way, I just got back from Davos.

Sacks: Congratulations, you did well. Looks good on you. Did you spend your own money or your LPS money?

Friedberg: I mean, if someone went to Davos and spent their own money, it's probably not.

Sacks: Right. Exactly. So then there are the hangers-on spending $50,000 to feel important. But then there are the people who are invited who probably don't spend any money who are basically speaking, too. And, you have to say that the group of people who are speaking at Davos, individually and collectively, are quite influential. They are the leaders of countries and Fortune 500 companies.

Chamath: Sure, but you can agree that they literally don't say anything that's noteworthy because they're not allowed to.

Sacks: They're not saying anything that's that different from what they would say the previous week or the following week. So, but it's a forum, it's a platform for...

Sacks: Yeah, it's a platform to get together. In terms of the critique of it, Friedberg, you asked how far back does this go? It's not like a new thing. The term 'Davos Man' was coined back in 2004 by Harvard professor Sam Huntington, who wrote a book called 'The Clash of Civilizations'. He's a professor of international relations at Harvard and he coined the term 'Davos Man' to refer to a globalist who, quote, had little need for national loyalty and viewed national boundaries as obstacles that are thankfully vanishing. That's how Huntington defined 'Davos Man'. And there's been a reaction to these 'Davos Men' that's been growing for a couple of decades. I mean, obviously, the election of Trump was a reaction to that, Brexit was a huge reaction to that, and I think that the resistance to the imposition of these globalist policies - which I guess you could define as believing in this borderless world, economically and politically - I think that's been receding in favor of more nationalist leaders who want to promote their own country's interests. And I think that trend is gonna continue.

Friedberg: Well, let's transition this to the broader question that we discussed a couple of episodes ago: how can we afford this transition if there is a mounting de-globalization movement and effort, particularly in the US? As Sacks pointed out, global debt to GDP is around 300-350%, depending on how you count. And we're running into a debt ceiling here in the US. I guess the question is, how do we afford to build the infrastructure redundancy and make the investments at home to replace global trade? Can we afford to do it? And how is this going to play out as we run into this debt ceiling vote?

Chamath: I don't think that's the right question. I think it's the inverse of that question. How can we afford not to, with the amount of discontent and economic strain that people feel? If you want to really call it populism, you're going to have to create economic vibrancy at home, when people are making money and they find purpose. They're less agitated, they're not storming the capital, they're not electing fringe candidates, they're not doing domestic terrorism, they're just going to work and building a life. We know that. So, how can we afford not to bring back jobs to the Heartland of America? The reality is that this debt to GDP thing is a bit of an intellectual red herring. People talk about this thing constantly in absolute terms with no historical precedent that relates well to our current moment. There is no magic number at which this experiment called America fails. So, I think you have to be a little bit more intellectually honest and say that, at best, it's a relative problem and it's relative to the countries that have already established dominance, of which there are eight or nine, and then the emerging economies. And then thinking about what critical things will they bring to the table in 15 or 20 years from now. And in that context, I think that people will hem and haw, but ultimately they'll capitulate, they will raise the debt ceiling and they'll continue to fund this transition away from globalism. And I think that's the argument that looks at the Republicans over the line, because it's going to bring a lot of spending and stimulus and jobs to, frankly, a lot of red states that would otherwise continue to wither and die on the vine.

Friedberg: My biggest concern is that if we make investments that are not economically viable, it could be a path to ruin. What I mean is that if we build factories, manufacturing facilities, and infrastructure that relies on outdated technology and systems of production, and if there are alternatives that are more productive and advanced, then we will lose out. If we make an investment with a negative return on investment, what do you think?"

Chamath: I have a question for you. You're making a basic assumption that is based on fundamental economics, but that can change if we choose to. For example, let's take natural resources. Every time you plan an industry, Wall Street and the debt markets refuse to underwrite it at a higher cost of capital. They use a discount rate of six to eight percent, but if you had a realistic discount rate of ten percent on a massive infrastructure project, you would be equivalent to a government, and in many cases the government would be cheaper. So, I think it's worth debating whether we refuse to change the guardrails on our profit-making ability. If you extended the window, changed the discount rate, and said that things can be different, it would completely change the economic justification for what you just said, by tens of years.

Friedberg: One way to describe that is to reframe what you just said. The useful lifespan of an investment may not be 40 or 50 years, but 12 years. If you recast the investment decision as needing to have a 12 year return, rather than allowing it to be modeled as a 40 year return, then you can filter out a lot of the nonsense and see real payback. It doesn't make sense to spend $100 billion on a train from L.A. to Fresno. The California high speed rail program was originally estimated to cost a billion dollars to go from L.A. to San Francisco, but it has ballooned to a much higher cost. From a policy perspective and accountability framing, there is something missing. We need to get paid back for these things within a certain time horizon. In China, they are building 405 nuclear power plants, which will drive down the cost of industrial power to below five or four cents per kilowatt hour. They are also electrifying all their factories, meaning that products can be made using electricity, giving them a huge economic advantage.

Chamath: It's not the cure that you think it is. Even if you have free energy, you have to think about the inputs and the things that China needs.

Friedberg: No, sorry, I'm not talking about energy. I'm just saying a general framing like, no, I understand. My point being, what investments should we be making, or where is the puck headed, not where has the puck been?

Chamath: Right, so I just wanted to comment on where the puck is heading. Even if energy is free in China, you have to think about inputs, meaning factories make things with inputs, and if you look, for example, at natural resources, the inputs by and large don't exist in China. And so, all I'm saying is that all of these inputs, whether it's natural resources that proliferate massively in the United States, it turns out that India is utterly, utterly, utterly poorly addressed in a geographical survey perspective. And we're finding that India's raw resources are off the charts. Okay, there's certain places in Africa, tons of stuff in Indonesia and Australia. All of those things may not have to go to China, because there are subsidies or there are equivalently cheaper decisions that governments can make so that they choose not to send it, and all of a sudden all of that spending doesn't matter as much because the Australian government makes a tradeoff that says, "You know what? I'd rather have these jobs here and I'm willing to have a longer payback cycle for these jobs to be here than instead of shipping to China. And they tell the Australian citizens, "I'm sorry guys, but you're gonna have to replace your car every seven years as opposed to every five. I hope you're okay with that. But that'll mean full employment and it'll prevent fringe candidates and populism, and let's go forward.

Friedberg: Where do you invest?

Chamath: I'm investing a lot of money in places that control natural resources that are poorly understood. For example, in India, our geological survey capacity is relatively naive, and it turns out that in critical parts of the energy supply chain, they can play a huge role. The Indian government's cost of capital has an element that accounts for full employment. If I build something in a certain state and try to get a certain number of jobs created, the full circle feedback of that allows me to transfer price it into the Indian market at a cheaper price than China can do, even with zero energy. This kind of sophisticated decision-making is emerging due to the de-globalization trend, and it's happening everywhere. The Indians, Germans, and Americans are doing it, and on top of that, they're using game theory to slow China down, as China needs inputs from these Western economies, and they're not giving them to them anymore. For example, in semiconductors, the Dutch, Germans, and Americans have essentially embargoed all of their most sophisticated equipment from ever getting into China, which will increase even with zero energy.

Chamath: The cost of what comes out of there will balance the playing field so that the Germans, the Dutch, and the Americans can bring other partners in at a different cost of capital to make it economically neutral. That parity and the reason they'll do it is to create jobs for Americans, the Dutch, or the Germans.

Jason: I think the most important thing here isn't energy, I don't think it's infrastructure, I don't think it's natural resources. At least for America, it's entrepreneurs and that's what it's always been for this country: immigration is the silver bullet here, inspiration and the freedom that this country has for entrepreneurs and founders to pursue a vision to start a company. That's why we've won so big historically, it's the combination of immigration and the inspiration that these entrepreneurs do on a global basis to get more entrepreneurs to come to this country, to go to Stanford to start companies. That's why China is now losing. They cribbed this incredible formula we had of letting Jack Ma do Alibaba, and then they decided to, for whatever insecure or stupid reason or pragmatic reason, to consolidate power. That's what will push the world forward and make our country thrive. We have to fix immigration. We have to keep letting entrepreneurs find the future because the government can do so much, they can underwrite a couple of chip factories here or there. Sure, we can put money into nuclear or fission or fusion, whatever the next technology is. But you need a singular person who wants to make it their life's mission, who wants to have their sense of pride and innovation push the world forward. Those people are rare, and we are in a competition globally that we are not focused on, that we need to get refocused on to recruit the greatest minds in the world who want to change the world to do it on American soil.

Friedberg: I do not disagree with you. Regarding my earlier comment about how to walk the tightrope between the debt burden, globalization and populism movements, and the challenges and opportunities ahead, I think it has to come through innovation. We have to invent a new tightrope.

Jason: I think the challenge though, Friedberg, is that it takes a recognition that there are singular individuals in the world - one in a million, one in a billion, whatever it is - who can drive an entire economy forward. Whether it's Gates with Microsoft or Steve Jobs with Apple, there are people who will push these things forward and take risks. We have to recognize that it's a small number of individuals backed by a large amount of capital that create massive jobs and great prosperity. It's an uncomfortable conversation for people to realize that it might just be a couple of dozen people a year immigrating to this country that changed the fate of this country.

Sacks: Do you need to allow three million migrants to stream across the border every year?

Jason: No, because you don't know which one it's gonna be.

Sacks: Really? That's your immigration policy - open borders? So that's your recruitment?

Jason: That's the opposite of your immigration, yeah? Okay, I can explain that. It's a great question, Sacks. There are two things to look at here. Let me finish my sentence.

Chamath: No, I'm just going to ask you to verify what you said. Are you saying that the PhD student who started Google is streaming across the border or actually applying for something?

Jason: No, absolutely not.

Sacks: Let me parse it for you.

Jason: There's immigration and then there's recruitment. If we frame this process with those two different words, there are people who are indeed immigrating and streaming across the border. However, I don't look at it in a political way. Then there's recruiting the most elite talent in the world. We can do both of these things. One of them helps farmers have people to work the fields, to have people take entry-level jobs, and to work in the service industry. We should bring in two or three million of those people per year. We should make it legal and we should celebrate it because we have so many of those positions open that Americans don't want to take. We should then also, in parallel, and without confusing the issue for political reasons, recruit people to come to our universities. When they graduate, we should have their citizenship stapled to that diploma and not let them leave the country. We should let them start companies here instead. What we do is we make them fight to stay here. We should be recruiting the smartest and most talented people; that would be hundreds of thousands of people per year, or even millions coming across the border.

Chamath: "Sick Jaykall is very reasonable. No, great moderation. Yeah, go ahead.

Sacks: You know I'm an immigrant; my dad came over in 1977 when I was five years old. He had an M.D. and was a doctor, so he had skills and wasn't going to become a net government dependent. I think it makes sense to allow immigrants who can add something to our economy and bring skills. But the problem is, if you take a reasonable position, you're told you have to accept a situation of de facto open borders, which is ridiculous.

Jason: These are two separate things, and the Democratic Party has inflated it by conflating these two issues. You know they're two separate things.

Sacks: Yes, the Democratic Party has conflated these issues.

Jason: Alright, both parties are conflating their views here at the all-in podcast. Can we agree that a group of people could recruit people for PhD programs?

Jason: A group of people allows people across the border to take service jobs.

Friedberg: Obviously, that's the way to go. But let me tie this back to Davos Man. What was the definition of Davos Man? It was somebody who was pushing this ideology of free trade and open borders to such an extent that it created a nationalist or populist backlash. That's exactly what's happened at our Southern border. You have people who believe in immigration pushing that ideology to such an extent that they won't create a rational, sensible Southern border process. It's chaos down there and bringing in the Dream Team is in favor of bringing the Dream Team.

Friedberg: But isn't the response to open borders the creation of this nationalist movement? The nationalist movement only exists because of open borders. I think that's the point, right? Like the extreme, there's the extreme.

Jason: I think the immigration system should be based on points.

Sacks: Just like the Davos men don't. If the Davos men don't start taking into account these national considerations around the defense of their borders and these issues around trade hollowing out the middle class, then there's going to be an intense backlash. And I don't think those elites have been managing the situation very well. It would have been better for them to pursue the more nuanced policy you're talking about.

Jason: Why are we conflating the issue then? Why do the Democrats and the Republicans make this such a polarizing issue instead of stating it the way I did in the South? It's so easy to separate them.

Friedberg: You know when you conflate them, you can incite an emotional response from your voting base. That's why these issues get brought up; you can drive someone to vote for you by framing the other side as extreme.

Sacks: Before you got suddenly very reasonable, you said that we had to allow two to three million destitute, practically illiterate migrants to stream across our border because one in a million of them might be an Elon Musk.

Jason: No, no, hold on. I was talking about immigration typically includes both people coming in for education and people coming across the southern border. We should have a point-based system, like Canada and Australia, where you get points for everything you bring to the country, such as money, language skills, and degrees. If you don't speak the language or have an education, you have zero points. If you have a master's degree and speak two or three languages, you get two or three points. We can let in buckets of people based on compassion, service workers, and the potential for the next Elon Musk or David Sacks or Chamath Palihapitiya.

Friedberg: I think Jaykall's argument is that the compassion argument falls on deaf ears in a time where people feel we cannot afford it and it's a luxury to embrace that level of immigration right now.

Jason: We should pick a number that we can reasonably absorb. This is what we should look at.

Sacks: We can see chaos at the southern border and obviously they want to get that under control before they adopt your point-based system. I like the idea in concept, but I don't know if it's your point or not.

Friedberg: No, no, we don't need to.

Sacks: I like the idea of admitting immigrants based on skills that the country actually needs, and a simple recognition that it's better to bring in people who are immediately productive, who can hold on and add to our economy, as opposed to being dependent on government assistance.

Friedberg: We're done. We're done. There are countries, I just want to point out, that have said they can accept up to a certain number of people who are uneducated and don't speak the language. Specifically, the Scandinavian countries have said they can accept 50,000 per year based on compassion. That's the reasonable discussion that needs to happen here.

Sacks: But did you just say that we have to do these two things simultaneously? Meaning that until we implement an overhaul of our entire immigration system based on skills and points, we can enforce the southern border.

Jason: No, I think you can enforce the southern border. Let me just tell you there's going to be no Canada and Australia already doing. Let me just tell you there's not going to be a broad-based constituency in this country for the type of immigration reform you're talking about until you get the southern border under control because people look at that on the news and see chaos and there's no excuse for that. They should be thoughtful and they should just look at what Canada and Australia have done. Those countries have actually controlled this and it's not a polarizing issue there. It's a pragmatic issue.

Friedberg: Alright, everyone. Let's move forward to the banning of TikTok. I want to change the tone a little bit. Recently, it was reported that TikTok has been banned from use on the campus wifi network at a number of universities, including UT Austin, Auburn, Boise State, and the University of Oklahoma. College students can't access the app when they're on the campus network. This follows 19 states that recently banned TikTok and government devices. As everyone knows, TikTok is a product from ByteDance, which is a Chinese-based company. There has been quite a lot of political and regulatory huffing and puffing about ByteDance having this level of insight and access to users in the United States, with the assumption being that much of the data that they're pulling out of the app is available to the Chinese Communist Party, which creates a security threat to the United States. That's one argument. I think there is also a significant tie-in to ByteDance. There's over $8 billion of capital invested in ByteDance by firms that we know well, like Sequoia Capital, Tiger Global, Coatue, Sacks Khane, and others. They're trying to find a way to monetize their investment in what is truly the most viral, fastest-growing, highest revenue-growing, biggest startup in the world right now in ByteDance. So, there is a restructuring proposal apparently underway that's being discussed in Washington D.C. right now to try and restructure the organization and the ownership structure and the oversight of TikTok and ByteDance such that U.S. regulators and U.S. companies can oversee the data, the use of the data, the algorithms underlying TikTok, and monitor them from within the United States. Question for this group here on the McLaughlin Group of 2023 is: Does that do enough for you, McLaughlin? Do you guys think that that's enough? First up is Chamath, who has been silent for a bit.

Chamath: I think this is really bad news for ByteDance basically. What's happening is that all the frustration that all these legislators and politicians have had over Facebook, Google, and other big tech companies is going to get focused on ByteDance because you have this common enemy that you can point to as a boogeyman of sorts. And I'm not saying that it's right. But I think that what you're starting to see is it's much easier to pick a fight with the Chinese company and win and get broad-based support than it is to pick a fight against an American company with a bunch of American employees, an American market cap, American know-how, and American IP that gets impacted. So, I don't think this is going to end well for TikTok and I think the goal, if I were any of these people on the cap table, would be to sell it in secondary to somebody else and get out. I think the next big shoe to drop is going to be advertisers who come under a lot of pressure. So, for example, think of all the advertisers that have left Twitter. There is a point of efficiency where you can live with all of the mess that Twitter has because it comes with a lot less scrutiny and oversight and political pressure than advertising on TikTok. And that, I think, is the next kind of big wave here. So, I think it's very, very bad. I think the enterprise value of this company is quite challenged and these guys should try to sell and get out.

Friedberg: Who are the buyers in that secondary market though? I mean, that's a lot of capital.

Chamath: The thing is, the cap tables haven't been segregated. So, what you own is equity in ByteDance, right? But the problem is, the look-through ownership will discount a lot of TikTok if they see a lot more of this stuff happening. You guys have to remember, this is the first three or four weeks of 2020. Wait till we're here in September, October, and November. Wait till the election year starts. It's not good. So, it's a discount on ByteDance. That probably takes ByteDance down by 70 or 80 billion. So, that's a 35% discount to their last mark. So, you know, if somebody can sell in the high 100 billions of dollars, I think they should consider it. It's worth it.

Jason: Well, I think you have to be incredibly pragmatic here. This is the same as the five G issue. You cannot trust the Chinese government to not steal intellectual property or to put backdoors into the software. It is common business practice. Their Huawei was banned. They basically stole the source code from Cisco that was proven and it was proven that they were spying on people in Canada, the UK, the United States, and Vietnam. Everybody has banned using 5G technology from China for a reason because they will use it to spy on you. This is the nature of an authoritarian government. It is far too powerful to have not only the surveillance capabilities that are built into owning TikTok in the hands of the Chinese Communist Party, to have the ability to very in a very nuanced fashion, trends. Certain videos that would steer the United States in a certain direction towards stupidity is one of course right there.

Chamath: That 60 minutes clip is incredible. Right? So they're showing science videos to the kids in China and they're showing stupid nonsense to the kids in America. What do you think of our children versus their children?

Jason: You can be 100% certain they're doing psyops on our children as we speak. They are trying to make us dumb and distracted while they get smart and sharp.

Chamath: By the way, it's very simple. If you're not making the choices for our kids, that's like saying if you gave kids a choice between broccoli and chocolate bars, they're going to go right to the chocolate bars. It's the job of a parent.

Sacks: That's number one, know their name and the number to differentiate good things and the future is not bright for TikTok here because it's gotten caught up in the geopolitical rivalry between China and the United States and that's only going to keep getting more and more intense. The U.S. and China are headed for a big security competition and TikTok is caught in the middle. So I agree with Chamath about the future. But you know this claim is made that TikTok is spyware and you know it's listening to you, it's surveilling you, it's keeping track of you. Like, what is the evidence for that claim? I just want to understand that a little better. Has anyone ever proven that TikTok is spyware and if it is, why does Apple stop it? Can you explain that to me?

Jason: Yeah, I think Apple has a complicated relationship with China. So, I'm not going to weigh in.

Sacks: So, Jaykall, your claim is, let me just pin you down on this first section: your claim is that 100% of TikTok is spyware, and Apple is letting it happen because of their relationship with the Chinese Communist Party?

Jason: I don't have evidence of specific instances of them spying, but I do know that this is the Chinese government's aspiration: to have backdoors to spy on all Americans. That's why they're trying to get away with it. You don't even need to know that, you can just open your eyes and see it as an insult. But you can just look at what TikTok has access to: it has access to your location, your camera roll, and it knows everyone in your social circle because it has your address book. So, by having your address book, location, and access to your photo roll, they have you compromised by default.

Chamath: The default settings when you install TikTok turn on local network, microphone, camera, background app refresh, and cell data. So, TikTok is no worse than anyone else in that, because a lot of other apps are very aggressively trying to harvest all that data as well. It's like Alexa is always listening to you, right? But you feel safer with Alexa because it's an American company, or the perception of safety is there. So, I don't think there's a huge thing to prove other than, yeah, there's a setting that allows you to turn on the microphone, and it is the default, and they do.

Jason: But they were caught. I just want to make sure you guys understand this: according to The New York Times, Bytedance, the Chinese parent company of TikTok, said on Thursday that an internal investigation found that employees had inappropriately obtained the data of U.S. TikTok users, including that of two reporters over the summer. A few employees on the Bytedance team responsible for monitoring employee conduct tried to find the source of suspected leaks of internal conversations and business documents to journalists. In doing so, the employees gained access to the IP addresses and other data of two reporters, and a small number of people connected with the reporters by the TikTok accounts. They were trying to determine if those individuals were within the proximity of Bytedance employees, according to the company. So, there's an example of them using the technology to try to track down leaks.

Friedberg: Hold on a second. That's exactly what any app company can do. The photos, the screenshots we got from Twitter, um, that were shared and all those files or whatever that happened a few weeks ago showed that many Twitter employees were able to log in and just view the direct messages between Twitter users, and that there's no necessary logging or access privileges required to have access to that information. There are these holes in all of these social networking and consumer digital consumer product companies that allow individuals to go in and do things with consumer data.

Friedberg: It's a future, sure, but it doesn't seem to be controlled by a government agency.

Chamath: No, that's the key thing. What Jaykall just said is the key thing. Everybody tries to get these things turned on by default. Every app tries to get access to your camera roll, your contacts, and turn on the microphone. The problem isn't that those settings exist because Apple created them and Apple created a privacy framework where you have to opt out. Okay. The issue is that the data, instead of going to an American company with American data centers and American service, is going to somebody in China, or the perception that that's happening. I think that's the death knell now. This is also excluding all of the work that every single big tech company must be doing to point the finger away from them. This is something they can all agree on. If you got Andy Jassy, Sundar, and Satya Nadella in a room, what do you think they could all agree on? Hey guys, are we better off pointing the fingers at each other or should we just point it over there to a company based in China?"

Sacks: Do you think that TikTok is being unfairly blamed for this, or do you think it is a genuine security risk? Both.

Jason: Both. Yeah, that's yes to both. And you know what I think what we saw with the Twitter files, for me personally, the one that was most concerning was the fact that the FBI was being treated as if they didn't have control of it, like the Chinese government has control over it at a wholesale level. But they were being given, you know, pretty close to privileges, but they had more influence than they should have and they should have gotten subpoenas. Right? So, even in a democracy like the United States, you can see the FBI using techniques to get employees on their side, to get information on specific users. Imagine if the FBI just had 'God mode' for Twitter or Facebook. Like, what would happen? Even in a democracy, we see it happen; we see abuse. The Chinese government is a communist party. They have no problem sucking the data down of every single person and using it however they want.

Chamath: I think the problematic thing is that when you look at the capital structure of these Chinese companies post now, with the Chinese government being ruler for life, they typically have a seat on all of these boards. They also typically have a golden vote. So when you think about the governance, it has tilted far away from a normal capital table where it's one shareholder, one vote. You are allowed to exist on this capital table at the benevolence of the government, so I think you have to factor that in as well.

Sacks: So, is it amplified probably? But is there also a nontrivial risk that we would never give to any other company? Absolutely. Like, how would we react if the government had a golden vote and a board seat on Meta going into an election? I mean, one party would be crazy and the other party would stay mum. That's what

Friedberg: I mean, let's talk about it, but let's be pragmatic. The news reports that came out this week indicate that they're talking about restructuring TikTok. So let me propose this to you guys: if TikTok US were set up as TikTok US Inc., its own C-Corp based in the US and ByteDance owns passive, non-voting shares in TikTok. All the software, all the services, the algorithms are all run in the US. The data is only sitting on servers in the US and the Chinese have an economic interest ultimately in what happens with that asset, but that asset is entirely managed and run in the US. And I think...

Chamath: Yeah, so you'd have to then make an exception.

Friedberg: That sounds like it's part of the discussion that's underway right now: how do we get past this regulatory hurdle? Guys, I don't know how you turn off TikTok for 100 million people that are using it for two hours a day.

Chamath: Deals left, right, and center at much, much smaller thresholds because of Sophia's, because we're not even dealing with China.

Friedberg: Assume you get past it. If you assume that there is no...

Chamath: That's a bad assumption.

Friedberg: Right. But, like, that's obviously there's $8 billion dollars of capital.

Chamath: The minute that if you let the Chinese government do an end-around on Sophia's to own 30% passively, then everybody who's had a deal rejected for a much smaller threshold for a much more benign issue will sue.

Friedberg: Except that they started with this asset rather than buying into it. That's the difference. And what they're doing is they're seeding. The difference here is they're ceding control of the asset to US investors and oversight by the US government, as opposed to trying to come in and buy an economic asset.

Chamath: That's not what Sophia's adjudicating. It doesn't adjudicate. Where did this originate? Adjudicate in this cap table. Does this person exist? Should they exist at what threshold? What do they know? And are we giving something that we shouldn't give? Yeah. Let me go another way of saying it: if the pragmatic answer is you can't just make up a bunch of stuff that blows up a bunch of other stuff?

Friedberg: Let me frame it differently. What if ByteDance sold TikTok US to a US-owned private equity consortium, a US-run private equity consortium that effectively bought TikTok US and operated it here in the US?

Chamath: That's exactly what should happen. But my point is those people are smart enough to not pay full price. They'll say, "You're fucked. That asset is worth zero. I'll buy it for $10 billion. Take it or leave it. And you know what they'll have to do? They'll have to take it. So my point is the equity value is so impaired in this thing. Would you buy it for $10 billion? Of course I'm a buyer. But these guys are smart enough to drive a huge bargain, a hard bargain. So if you're existing on the cap table and you've marked it at $320, I would be fucking selling it.

Friedberg: All right, it looks like something like this is going to happen, so it should be interesting to watch.

Chamath: If any group of people got together and tried to buy it for its fair market value via a spreadsheet, they would be terrible investors in this moment. You should hold a gun to their head and extract a massive pound of flesh that gives you a huge margin of safety and makes you money. Do you know any people who are shareholders? If they could have sold it at $3.20 or $1.20, they would have sold already.

Chamath: Well, we know there are people who will buy this in bulk.

Jason: Then sell as much as you can and invest the profits into another company.

Chamath: Now the problem is you have to show a marked down because you've already marked it at $320. So I have to take a 65% discount.

Jason: Yeah, if you're underwater, you're underwater. But for anybody who got into the sub one billion round, you can't eat I.R.R., and you can't eat paper markups. You can only eat the distribution. So get the D.P.I. and move on.

Jason: Get the D.P.I. and move on to another bet you could place while I try to be greedy and get the last three X's out of this investment.

Friedberg: I want to move away from software meets leisure to software meets human health and productivity. A couple of weeks ago, we talked about this and last week it was announced that BioNtech was buying InstaDeep. InstaDeep is a broad, horizontal AI or machine learning tools company and services business. They partner with big businesses to help them build out ML-driven infrastructure to improve their products, operations, and businesses. One of their customers was BioNtech, the company that designed and developed the original Pfizer Covid vaccine, one of the original originators of mRNA-based technology. BioNtech doesn't just focus on mRNA technology; they also focus on cell and gene therapies, novel new modalities that are emerging in therapeutics. It was a really interesting acquisition; they bought the company for about $600 million. AI can be used to accelerate drug discovery. I'll just make a comment on this and then, Sacks, I'd love to hear your point of view on these types of businesses broadly. The capabilities of machine learning when applied to a particular vertical are quite profound. I've certainly been involved in this space in agriculture and increasingly doing more of this work in pharmaceuticals and biotech. When you can have large, unique data sets that you can then model using these tools and capabilities and be predictive about what the next product iteration should be.

Friedberg: It can really change the value of the trajectory of your business. One of the big trends in pharma right now is to move from in vitro testing, meaning running biochemical experiments in labs, to in silico testing, which is done in software. And rather than just doing testing in software, you can use tools like AlphaFold that can be predictive of large molecules and how they can drive outcomes, to make decisions about what to put in your pipeline. So if you take 99% of the junk out of the top of your pipeline and you only focus on the 1% that the software predicts will be more successful, you can much more quickly get drug discovery through the pipeline and you have a much higher hit rate. So the return on investment is extraordinary, particularly when you're talking about multi-billion dollar revenue streams coming out the other end of that pipeline. And so I think you know the way this reads, these guys raised $100 million in a round last year and sold the company for $600 million. It seems very similar to DeepMind being bought by Alphabet a few years ago, where the application of the team is pretty broad across a number of opportunities, but Bio and Tech bought them to focus on the kind of pharma space. So I guess, Sacks, you know in the earlier stage and you know I see a lot of teams now that are like, 'Hey, we're AI for this or ML for that.' A lot of pharma and biotech deals have to have the catchphrase ML or AI in their writing now because of the economic improvement of those businesses. Are you looking at enterprise software businesses that aren't necessarily about the typical subscription model where you sell a seat license and people pay for that, but have this broad toolset and toolkit where these folks are earning revenue share or participating in the service revenue stream for enhancing the value of their partner in the AI or ML space? And what's the better business model because I think this is where so many new teams are starting out? What's the business model and what should we be focused on with our ML toolkit?"

Sacks: "I mean that's your answer, no, we haven't done any deals like that. I mean, we're not venture investors. So I don't know how I would be able to evaluate even if it is a software product. I don't know how you would evaluate its effect on pharma outcomes. So I mean, we haven't done any other verticals. I mean, like, do you look at ML and AI companies that are more services or partner-oriented versus just selling seat licenses to a software tool? I mean, is that a big trend you're seeing?"

Sacks: "I don't think we have enough data to tell you what the trend is. We did a deal called Pearl which is creating an AI for dentistry. So what it will do is it scans in all of the X-rays and dental records from dental practices and it gives a kind of a second opinion. It can spot things like cavities and things like that or just changes in the condition. Where it's really powerful is over time. Right? If it's got your last six sets of X-rays over whatever six-year period, it can detect changes that are probably hard for a human to see. So they think they can get to better than human sort of diagnosis by using computer vision. And then we invested in something after that where we realized, okay, this is kind of a powerful application. So we invested in a company called Robot Flow which creates tools for computer vision. So Pearl created its own tools for taking a large number of X-rays and classifying them and then creating their own AI tools. Robot Flow gives you that same toolset but you can run it on any computer vision project. And they seem to be building a pretty big universe of software developers who are using their tools.

Friedberg: And in this case, this was a team that was bought; they bought a 250% team for $600 million from AI companies. When you see a $600 million dollar exit for effectively a capability they didn't have, you know, a core product that was in market. They were doing kind of these co-development deals. But I mean, how much does...

Sacks: AI is already the hot thing and everyone's kind of looking at this now. I don't know, like, I never want to base an investment decision on the fact that some acquirer might come in and buy you for a large amount of money when you have no revenue or business model. I just think that that's not really a sustainable...

Jason: Though it does seem that AI engineers go for two million each. I think it's kind of your point, Dave. Yeah, I mean, DeepMind got bought for what? 600 by Google and I think they had 200 people, 400, 400. Yeah. So, yeah, it does seem like, and I think DeepMind did not have a business concept in mind when they were funded. They just wanted to do research, right? That was kind of...

Friedberg: The company platform capabilities similar to inside Deep. I mean, there's a lot of these. That's what I'm pointing out is like some of these platform capabilities end up just getting bought for you know, huge sums...

Sacks: Because you can apply the amount, you can't invest in a company hoping for an unreasonable acquisition, meaning, unreasonable meaning that... yeah, like, unreasonable meaning that your own metrics don't reflect that valuation as a business. You might be worth it as a strategic acquisition of somebody else. But you raise an interesting question, which is, is a seat model the right way for one of these companies to price the product? And you may be right that the seat license model doesn't really work because, like, how many seats do you really need to buy from these companies? Look, it's true. Like, I mean, we've seen, we've even seen we've had these debates inside the companies I mentioned where, like, you know, charging a $10 a month seat doesn't really reflect the value of the insights that are being created. And so, yeah, they're like, you know, there, I don't think that's been figured out yet...

Friedberg: But this is the big question. ML and AI. When I was at Monsanto, you know, we had all this IP licensing deals we do or new products come to market and it was never cost plus or simple pricing. It was always about value capture in an enterprise setting, you know, 'cause we sold to farmers. It's like, how much value are you delivering for the farmers? If it's a $100 a profit an acre, you try and charge an incremental $30 an acre for that product. And it was always a one-third value capture model. And the same is true in biotech and pharma. The producer of the product or the co-developer of the product is often trying to value capture, and it's not a site license. It's not a service fee. It's more ultimately we want to get a royalty on the outcome on the improved that we can deliver to you. And so there's all these novel business models that are emerging at least that I'm seeing in pharma and biotech to participate more meaningfully ultimately in the drug development outcome versus just getting charged a fee for doing a service or fee for a license to a to a software package.

Chamath: The value of these companies has gone down. I was an early investor in a series of investments in a company called Flatiron Health. We sold it for $1.9 billion in 2018. What's really happened is the value of acquisitions in M&A has gone down, even as the technology capability has gone way up. Why is that? It's because this stuff has yet to be proven to actually meaningfully improve the hit rate for these drug companies. So, whether it's Biontech, Roche, or anyone else, the biggest problem we still have is getting the design space right, guessing better. These machines are better at doing raw calculations, but they're not necessarily better at veering towards this design space over that design space. As a result, you're not improving either the slugging percentage or the batting average of these pharma companies, and that's why they're paying less and less. So, everybody will have this capability as an adjunct. The thing that you have to do is, as you guys have said, if there's a company that can actually do better guessing at the top of the funnel, the thing that you should probably do is just give it away in return for a back-end rev share and royalty. And that business also exists. The best-performing company in pharma is a company called Royalty Pharma, it's a $22.5 billion company with 90% EBITDA margins. It exists in Ireland and is run in New York by this wonderful entrepreneur, Pablo Legorreta. But that's what he does; he buys small pieces of royalties. His whole thing is like the Paul Graham thing at YC: I'll give you just that little amount of support, and all you need is a little lift in valuation to justify giving me the 6% and the tooling company, the AI company that does that could win. Who would go to Roche, Biontech, Lilly, or somebody else and just say, 'Look, use my tools, and whatever drug you generate off of me'?"

Chamath: I just wanted a 3% royalty, and all you need to do is show a 3% lift across the portfolio of assets. That would be a killer business model, because if you look at what Pablo has done over a large number of successes, that's a gigantic company.

Friedberg: Mhm. Jaykall, I mean, are you investing in the seed-stage ML AI companies, and are there novel business models that you're seeing?

Jason: We're not seeing many yet, to be honest. We are seeing people play with Chat-GPT and kind of do, you know, experiments, but you know the more I've used Chat-GPT, we've connected it to our Slack so you can actually ask a question in our Slack in a channel called AI testing and it will give the answer and everybody can see people like playing with it. You know, it's kind of like a parlor trick. Now I'm in like that phase where I'm like, yeah, this is impressive, but it didn't actually solve my problem, and it's slightly faster than doing a Google search. So, I am thinking there's going to be a really good business created and taking the open source projects and forking them and verticalizing them, like you know Sacks is one that's doing dental work. You know, like this makes sense to me.

Chamath: Somebody should do it in accounting. Somebody should learn all of GAAP accounting, which is pretty simple because it's published, faz be all of this nonsensical accounting rules and give you 100% guarantee of no malfeasance. So, for example, you guys saw this Brazilian company.

Friedberg: AI accounting. Look at this company. Look.

Chamath: At this company, americanas in Brazil, which just torched $20 billion of enterprise value. Why? Because these guys were using Excel to do a bunch of complicated capitalization and cost accounting. Made two or three years of mistakes. It added up to two or $3 billion and they're basically gonna file bankruptcy in the next few days. That's completely avoidable human error. That should never happen. And an AI would be perfect for that. Like, this is not super controversial to just follow GAAP accounting, right?

Friedberg: I mean, I don't know if you need AI for that. I think you just need software, like a database would be good.

Chamath: No, the problem is the database exists today, like everybody sits on top of Oracle G.L., Workday. It doesn't prevent these errors. So, my point is, you got to get humans out of the system and the way I should be the accountant, the AI knows the rules, generates the P&L, and says this is it. And, by the way, that's way better risk management for the CEO and the CFO because, as you guys know, if you're the CEO of a public company, you have to sign your signature that these things are legitimate. I would way better know that a computer did it, like an open AI algorithm tells me, Chamath, this P&L is perfect, than some dude I don't know at Ernst and Young. I have a question for

Sacks: Sacks, Ipu, can you please explain to me why Alec Baldwin is gonna get charged with manslaughter for this rust thing? That seems really crazy.

Chamath: Could you explain what happens on a set with guns and how this happened? What is going on?

Sacks: Well, I have produced two movies, but neither of them involved guns or shootouts. So, I haven't had firsthand experience with this.

Friedberg: You're a gun owner, so you're an intersection of movie producer and gun owner.

Sacks: Yes, I understand the rules of gun safety. Look, Alec Baldwin did not follow the rules of gun safety. The first thing I would do if I was ever handed a gun would be to check to see if it was loaded and clear it. You never point it at someone; you always treat a gun as if it's loaded, even if you think it's not. But he was in a very specific situation, which is he's on a movie set and the person who's handing him the gun is the armorer, someone whose job it is to make sure the gun is handled properly and unloaded. So, I agree with you; I don't quite understand why Alec Baldwin is liable in that situation. The person who screwed up here is the armorer, whose job it was to never allow live ammunition on the set and to handle the guns properly.

Chamath: "Why would you ever have live ammunition on a movie set? So it's not as if the scene is different if you have a real bullet versus a blank.

Sacks: "It makes the same noise if...I remember there was a story about how the gun armory people were taking members of the cast and crew and they were shooting guns for fun at the desk, and they were doing targets and messing around and teaching people gun stuff and just playing around but using live ammunition and that that led into an accident. That's really bad. That sounds like the kind of negligence that caused this, but unless there are facts we don't know about, I don't know why you're being charged by the way within the armor. That sounds totally legit to me.

Friedberg: So, guys, listen, I need to run another call. I was going to talk about this really fantastic paper on one of the driving forces of aging, as demonstrated by a team from Harvard in collaboration with many others, on epigenetic sacks and the loss of data integrity, with epigenetic really being the core driver of aging in mammalian cells. It's an incredible paper. It speaks a lot to what we talked about last year, Yamanaka factors and partial epigenetic reprogramming themselves and how they can reverse aging. These guys have demonstrated it in a really powerful way. I'd love to spend some time on it. Maybe we can push that science corner to next week's wrap-up for today. I think we've talked about all sorts of fun stuff. It's been a real pleasure and an honor to be in the seat of the world's greatest moderator. We miss him today. We honor him. We look forward to having his return next week.

Jason: It's been a pleasure chatting with you gentlemen. And on behalf of the All In Pod and my co-hosts Chamath Palihapitiya, David Sacks, and Jason Calacanis, thank you for listening. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.

subject: Transcript of E111- Microsoft to invest $10B in OpenAI, generative AI hype, America's over-classification problem

This episode of the All In podcast covers Slate's article on All-In, a San Francisco business owner caught spraying a homeless person, Microsoft's investment in OpenAI, Biden's documents, and the best cabinet positions and ambassadorships.

This transcription was generated by AWS Transcribe + GPT-3 and might be inaccurate. Full copyright belongs to the All In Podcast hosts.

Chamath: Is anyone else seeing a half-second lag with Jake? It looks like a second delay.

Jason: Testing, testing, 1, 2, 12.

Chamath: It always happens here; it comes and goes. Relax, relax.

Sacks: Are we going? We're recording this; it's plus material. This is Chamath at the punchline.

Jason: Alright everyone, welcome to episode 111 of the world's greatest podcast according to Slate. The podcast that shall not be mentioned by the press apparently. Well, they did, this is the conundrum: it's such a phenomenon that we're the number one business and the number one tech podcast in the world, hands down, that the press has a hard time giving us any oxygen because they want to hate us. They want to cover it.

Chamath: You're saying they take the ideas but they don't want to cite it?

Chamath: They don't want to cite it.

Jason: They don't want to cite it, but anyway, shout-out to Slate.

Friedberg: What I found interesting was the point that we don't want to be subject to independent journalists asking us independent questions, so we go direct. That seems to be the trend nowadays when people say they want to go direct because they don't want to be subject to independent journalists.

Jason: One might ask themselves why subjects don't want to go directly to journalists. Yeah, exactly.

Sacks: Yeah, because there's a specific reason why principals, the subject of stories, do not want to have the press interpret what they're saying. They don't feel they're getting a fair shake. They feel like the challenges that we avoid independent scrutiny, points of view, and they're constantly writing hit pieces about us. The question is, when we want to present our side of it, do we need to go through their filter or not? Why would you go through their filter when it's always gonna be a hit piece? They have a class hatred, basically, of technology entrepreneurs and investors. You're right, Jake, they don't hate you because you genuflect to their political biases. You see, if you do what SPF did, which is basically agree with all of their biases, then yes, they'll treat you better. That's the deal. That's how specific large media outlets you can name one. I'll trade you. I'll tell you what, I'll trade you Fox for MSNBC and CNN and The New York Times, The Washington Post, and The Atlantic Magazine, and on and on and on. You get a lot of mileage out of being able to name Fox. The fact of the matter is, that's a podcaster. She's independent. Now you can name one. I mean, literally one outlet that is not part of this mainstream media and they all think the same way. There are very small differences in the way they think. It's all about clicks at this point and it's all about journalism and advocacy. Is that what you're calling advocacy, is bias?

Jason: That's what I'm talking about, activism journalism. Yes.

Friedberg: I think Draymond also highlights a really important point, which is you know he started his podcast and it's become one of the most popular forms of sports media, and he can speak directly without the filtering and classification that's done by the journalist. And it seems to be a really powerful trend; the audience really wants to hear direct and unfiltered raw points of view. And there may still be a role for journalism separate from that, which is to then scrutinize, analyze, question, and critique activists. Are there also journalists out there, Sacks?

Sacks: Well, it depends on what the topic is and what the outlet is. But I would actually argue that most of these journalists are doing what they're doing for the same reason that we're doing what we're doing, which is they want to have some kind of influence because they don't get paid very much. But the way they have influence is to push a specific political agenda. I mean, they're activists; they've basically become advocacy journalists.

Jason: Yes, that's a term I coined for it.

Chamath: You guys see this brouhaha where Matt Yglesias wrote this article about the Fed and about the debt ceiling, and through this whole multi-thousand word piece, he didn't understand the difference between a percentage point and a basis point and then calculate the interest.

Jason: Wait a second. You're saying the Feds are raising taxes by 25%?

Friedberg: That's a huge difference, 25%, between a principal and an outside analyst, right? Like a principal typically has a better grasp of the material. But you know, the argument from a journalist is considered the conventional wisdom within their circle.

Friedberg: I understand. But the argument from a journalist is that, by having that direct access, that person is also biased because they are an agent, a player on the field, and they do have a point of view and a direction they want to take things. So it is a fair comment that journalists can theoretically play a role as an off-field analyst, and that they may be less educated and more biased than we are.

Chamath: That may or may not be true what the two of you are debating, which is a very subjective take. But the thing that is categorical and cannot be denied is that there is zero checks and balances when something as simple as the basis point percentage point difference isn't caught in proofreading, isn't caught by any editor, and isn't caught by the people who help them review this. And so what that says is all kinds of trash must get through because there's no way for the average person on Twitter to police all of this nonsensical content. This one was easy because it was so numerically illiterate that it just stood out. But can you imagine the number of unforced errors journalists make today in their search for clicks that don't get caught out and may actually tip somebody to think A versus B? That's, I think, the thing that's kind of undeniable.

Jason: There is a very simple test for this. If you read journalists writing about a topic you are an expert on, whatever the topic happens to be, you start to understand, "Okay, well on that story I'm reading, they understand about 10 or 20 or 30% of what's going on." But then when you read stories that you're not involved in, you know, you read a story about Hollywood or, I don't know, pick an industry or a region you're not super aware of, you're like, "Okay, well that must be 100% correct." And the truth is, journalists have access to their name. There's a name for it. It's called the "Gentleman Amnesia Effect." You just plagiarized Michael Crichton who came up with that. Yeah. So, you know, it's exactly right. But I think it's worse than that. It's because now the mistakes aren't being driven just by sloppiness or laziness or just a lack of expertise. I think it's being driven by an agenda. So, just to give an example on the Slate thing, the Slate article actually wasn't bad. It kind of made us seem, you know, cool. The sub-headline was "A Close Listen to All in the Infuriating Fascinating Safe Space for Silicon Valley's Money Men." Okay. But the headline changed. So, I don't know if you guys noticed this. The headline now is "Elon Musk's Inner Circle is Telling Us Exactly What It Thinks." First of all, they're trying way too hard to describe us in terms of Elon, which you know is maybe two episodes out of 110. But before "Inner Circle," the word they used was "Cronies," and then somebody edited it because I saw "Cronies" in one of those tweet summaries, you know, where it does a capsule or whatever.

Sacks: Yeah, and those get frozen in time. So, you know, they were trying to bash us even harder, and then somebody took another look at it. What happened? I'll tell you what happens in the editorial process. Whoever writes the article, the article gets submitted, maybe gets edited, proofread, whatever. Maybe it doesn't even, in some publications, they don't have the time for it because they're in a race. Then they pick, there's somebody who's really good at social media. They pick six or seven headlines. They A/B test them, and they even have software for this where they will run a test. Sometimes they'll do a paid test, they put $5 in ads on social media, and see which one performs the best. That's the one they go with. So it's even more cynical, because people who read the headlines, sometimes they don't read the story, right? Obviously, most people just see the headline, they interpret that as a story. That's why I told you when they did that New Republic piece on you with that horrific, monstrous monstrosity of an illustration, don't worry about it. People just read the headline, they know you're important. Nobody reads the story anyway.

Sacks: But it wasn't a bad article actually.

Jason: It was well written; I was actually in shock. I was like, "Who is this writer who actually took the time to write something so decent?"

Sacks: Yeah, he had listened to a lot of episodes. Clearly.

Chamath: That was a really good moment, actually. That was great advice because you gave it to him and you gave it to me, because both of us had these things, and Jason said the same thing: just look at the picture and if you're okay with the picture, just move on. And I thought, "This can't be true," and it turned out to mostly be true.

Sacks: But my picture was terrible. Yeah.

Jason: But it's close to reality. So, I mean, there was Peter Thiel.

Sacks: But that just shows how ridiculously biased it is, right? Major look.

Jason: Like Hugh Grant alone. Let's put that up one more time here. Alone. Looks like Hugh Grant. I just kind of, not bad, kind of looks like Hugh Grant and like Notting Hill.

Sacks: I knew that article was going to be fine when the first, you know, item they presented as evidence of me doing something wrong was basically helping to oust Chasing Bodine, which was something that was supported by like 70% of San Francisco, which is a 90% Democratic city. So, not exactly evidence of some, you know, out-of-control right-wing movement.

Jason: Look at the headline, the quiet political rise of David Sacks has Silicon Valley's profits in an uproar. I'm just letting you know, people don't get past the six words in the image. It's 99% of people were like, "Oh my God, congrats on the, you know, Republic article." It could have literally been "laurels" what do they call them? Laurels? It seems like it could have just been filler words from their second paragraph down and nobody would know.

Sacks: But now, apparently, if you notice that San Francisco streets look like the Walking Dead, then apparently you're a prophet of the urban. I mean, people are so out of touch that they can't even acknowledge what people can see with their own eyes.

Jason: That's the bias. That's gotten crazy. And I don't know if you guys saw this, really horrible dystopian video of an art gallery owner who's been dealing with owning a storefront in San Francisco which is challenging, having to clean up feces and you know, trash and whatever every day and I guess the guy snapped and he's hosing down a homeless person who refuses to leave the front of the store. Just, like the humanity in this is just insane, like really, like you're hosing a human being down, it's terrible, who is obviously not living a great life and you know.

Sacks: I can feel for both of them. I agree that it's not good to hose a human being down, on the other hand, think about the sense of frustration that store owner has because he's watching his business go in the toilet because he's got homeless people living in front of him. So they're both like being mistreated, the homeless person being mistreated and the store owner being mistreated by the city of San Francisco. That person is not in a privileged position, that person, probably the store owner, he's probably fighting to stay in business. I'm just saying, I'm not saying that's right, but I think, I'm just saying, you're trying to do what you're trying to do is, oh my God, look at this, this homeless person being horribly oppressed, know that store owner is a victim too.

Jason: Yeah, there's no doubt it's horrible to run a business, you know. This is symbolic of the breaking down of basic society. Like, these two people are obviously... It's just a horrible moment to even witness. It's like something...

Chamath: Jason, do you have equal empathy for the store owner and the homeless person or no?

Jason: Under no circumstances should you hoes a person down in the face who is homeless. Like, it's just horrific to watch. It's just inhumane. This is a human being now, but as a person who owns the store, yeah, my dad grew up in local businesses. People were abusing the store, you're trying to make a living and you gotta clean up, you know, whatever excrement every day, which...

Sacks: A person is in that moment, the empathy is not equal. I think you have more empathy obviously for the person on the receiving end of that host. Okay, but in general, our society has tons of empathy for homeless people. We spend billions of dollars trying to solve that problem. You never hear a thing about the store owners who are going out of business. So, on a societal level, you know, not in that moment, but in general, the lack of empathy is for these middle class, or working class, store owners who are struggling to stay afloat. And you look at something like what is it, like a quarter or a third of the storefronts in San Francisco are now vacant. This...

Jason: The shocking thing is like this person is running an art gallery storefront in San Francisco. Like, why would you even bother? Why would you bother to have a storefront in San Francisco? I mean, everybody's left. It's just...

Chamath: What do you mean? Why do you bother if you open the stores? So, what are you supposed to do all of a sudden?

Jason: Well, no, I mean you would shut it down at some point and find an exit and just like, businesses have large fixed costs, right? 10 years ago.

Jason: Exactly. At some point you have to shut down your story in San Francisco as soon as you can.

Chamath: The solution to everything, Jake, isn't to go to coding school online and then you know...

Jason: It was just a suggestion to consider moving to another city. True.

Chamath: A lot of folks in Silicon Valley, I think, in this weirdly messed up way do believe the solution to everything is to learn to code or learn to get a job, get a gig.

Friedberg: For years, the guy spent years building his retail business. A homeless person camps in front and the homeless person and he calls the police, but the police don't come and move the homeless person, the homeless person stays there. He asked nicely for them to move.

Chamath: Customers are uncomfortable going into stores.

Friedberg: Yeah, I stopped going to certain stores in my neighborhood because of homeless tents being set up right in front of the store, so I go to the store down the road to get my groceries or whatever. It's not an uncommon situation for a lot of these small business owners; they don't own the real estate, they're paying rent, they have high labor costs, and everything is inflating. Generally, the city population is declining. It's a brutal situation all around.

Chamath: I think that if everyone learns to code or drives an Uber, the problem is that, in the absence of things like local stores and small businesses, you hollow out communities. You have these random, detached places where you kind of live, and then you sit in your house, which becomes a prison, while you order food from an app every day. I don't think that is the society that people want. So, I don't know, I kind of want small businesses to exist, and I think that the homeless person should be taken care of. But the small business person should have the best chance of trying to be successful, because it's hard enough as it is; the mortality rate of the small business owner is already 90%.

Jason: It's impossible in San Francisco. Let's be honest, I'm not trying to push people to listen.

Sacks: You are because here's what I'm saying. I'm just shocked that the guy even has a storefront; I would have left it alone.

Sacks: You're sharing a tweet. That's a moment in time and you're not showing the ten steps that led up to it. Oh, a thousand steps, five times. He called the police from the customer's. The stuff that we were just talking about.

Friedberg: Maybe there was physical conflict that we didn't see, and he's resolving it. It's really hard to look at these videos and know what's going on. It's awful to see, but we don't know—it's a whole thing.

Sacks: Actually, you want to know another reason why we can't solve this problem? It's the language we use around the fundamental problem here—it's not homelessness, it's addiction and mental illness. SchElonberg has done the work. It's like he said, 99% of the people he talks to, it's either mental illness or addiction, but we keep using this word 'homeless' to describe the problem. But the issue here is not the lack of housing, although that's a separate problem in California, but it's basically the lack of treatment. So we should be calling them 'treatment lists'.

Friedberg: And mandates around this because, an enforcement—you can't have a super drug be available for a nominal price and give people, you know, a bunch of money to come here and take it and not enforce it. You have to draw the line at fentanyl. I'm sorry, fentanyl is a super drug.

Friedberg: These three alternatives are mandated rehab, mandated mental health services, jail, or housing services. If you're not breaking the law and don't have a drug addiction, then these are the four paths of success. If all four of these paths were both mandated and available in abundance, this could be a tractable problem. Unfortunately, the mandate...you guys remember that Kevin Bacon movie where Kevin Bacon was locked up in a mental institution, but he wasn't mentally ill? It's a famous story. It's a famous...what's that famous story? You guys are probably going to call me an idiot for messing this whole thing up. But I think there's a story where mandated mental health services, like locking people up to take care of them when they have mental health issues, became kind of inhumane.

Friedberg: And, a lot of the institutions were shut down and a lot of the laws were overturned. And there are many of these cases that happened where they came across as quite torturous to what happened to people that weren't mentally ill. And so the idea was like let's just abandon that, right? And, it's unfortunate. But I think that there's some, you know, we talk a lot about nuance and gray areas but there's certainly some solution here that isn't black or white. It's not about not having mandated mental health services and it's not about locking everyone up that has some slight problem. But there's some solution here that needs to be crafted where you know you don't let people suffer and you don't let people suffer both as the victim on the street but also talking about a 5150, I think, like when people are held, but because they're a danger to themselves or others kind of thing. Right?

Sacks: But think about the power of language here. If we refer to these people as untreated persons instead of homeless persons and that was the coverage 24/7 in the media is this is an untreated person. The whole policy prescriptions are completely different and realize there's a shortage of treatment. We realize there's a shortage of remedies related to getting people in treatment, as opposed to building housing. But why? Why?

Friedberg: And laws that mandate it that don't enable it? Because if you don't mandate it then you enable the free rein and the free living on the streets and the open drug markets and all this sort of stuff.

Jason: There's a really easy test for this. If it were yourself or a loved one, one of your immediate family members, would you want them to be picked up off the street and held with a 5150 or whatever code involuntarily against their will because they were a danger? Would you want them to be allowed to remain on the street? Would you want yourself if you were in that dire straits? And the answer of course is you would want to."

Friedberg: From a policy perspective on this Jake House, so let me ask you as our die-hard liberal on this show: what percentage of the time do you vote Democrat?"

Jason: I'm not a die-hard liberal, I vote Democrat 75% of the time."

Sacks: What percentage of independents or Democrats vote for Democrats, 5% Republicans?"

Friedberg: Is it not that your individual liberties are infringed upon if you were to be quote 'picked up and put away'?"

Jason: You know my position on it is if you're not thinking straight, if you're high on fentanyl, you're not thinking for yourself and you could lose the liberty for a small period of time, 72 hours a week, especially if you're a danger to somebody, yourself or other people. And in this case, if you're on fentanyl, if you're on meth, you're a danger to society. And I think if more people had that point of view and had that debate in a more open way, you could get to some path to resolution."

Chamath: Not how it happens. So, you guys know this, we won't say who it is, but someone in my family has some pretty severe mental health issues. And the problem is, because they're an adult, you can't get them to get any form of treatment whatsoever, right? You only have the nuclear option. And the nuclear option is you basically take that person to court and try to seize their power of attorney, which is essentially saying that individual liberties are gone. And by the way, it is so unbelievably restrictive. What happens if you lose that power of attorney, and somebody else has it over you? It's just a huge burden that the legal system makes extremely difficult. And the law is a backstop. You know, if the person is committing something illegal, like camping out or doing fentanyl, meth, whatever, you can use the law as a backstop against that person. But all that person can do is really get arrested. Even that is not a high enough bar to actually get power of attorney over somebody. The other thing that I just wanted you guys to know, I think you know this, but just a little historical context is, a lot of this crisis in mental health started because Reagan defunded all the psychiatric hospitals, he emptied them in California. And that compounded because, for whatever reason, his ideology was that these things should be treated in a different way. And when he got to the presidency, one of the things that he did was he repealed the Mental Health Systems Act, or M.H.S.A., which completely broke down some pretty landmark legislation on mental health. And I don't think we've ever really recovered, and that we're now 43 years onward from 1980. But just something for you guys to know, that that's had a lot of positive, but that's one definitely negative check in my book against his legacy is his stance on mental health in general and what he did to defund mental health."

Sacks: Well, let me make two points there. I'm not defending that specific decision. There were a bunch of scandals in the 1970s, epitomized by the movie One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest with Jack Nicholson, about the conditions in these mental health homes. That did create a groundswell to change laws around that. But I think this idea that somehow Reagan is to blame when he hasn't been in office for 50 years, as opposed to the politicians who have been in office for the last 20 years, I just think it's letting them off the hook. I mean, Gavin Newsom 10-15 years ago, when he was mayor of San Francisco, declared that he would end homelessness within 10 years. He just made another declaration like that as governor. So I just feel like I'm saying it's an interesting historical moment and I think it's letting society off the hook. Society needs to start thinking about changing priorities.

Sacks: We didn't have this problem of massive numbers of people living on the streets ten to fifteen years ago; it was a much smaller problem, and I think a lot of it has to do with fentanyl. The power of these drugs has increased massively; there are other things going on here. So, in any event, I mean you can question what Reagan did in light of current conditions, but I think this problem really started in the last ten to fifteen years in an order of magnitude bigger way.

Jason: Until people realize that these are a different class of drugs and start treating them as such, it's going to just get worse. There's no path, as far as I know, that Reagan handed out $800 a week to these addicts to feed their addictions. They can live on the street in San Francisco; that is the current policy of the city.

Chamath: All I wanted to do was provide that color, we had a system of funding for the mental health infrastructure, particularly local mental health infrastructure, and we took that back and then never came forward. And all I'm saying is, I'm just telling you where that decision was made. I think that's part of the solution here, yeah, we're going to have to basically build up shelters and support your point. The problem now, for example, is Gavin Newsom says a lot of these things, and now he's gone from a massive surplus to a $25 billion dollar deficit overnight, which we talked about even a year ago because that was just the law of numbers catching up with the state of California, and he's not in a position now to do any of this stuff. So this problem may get worse.

Sacks: Well, they did appropriate. I forget the number, but it was something like 10 billion to try and solve the problem of homelessness. I would argue that they're not tackling it in the right way because a giant special interest has formed around this problem, the building industry, who gets contracts to build 'affordable housing' or the industrial complex. They end up building 10 units at a time on Venice Beach, which is the most expensive land you could possibly build. So now there's a giant special interest and lobby that's formed around this. If you really want to solve the problem, you wouldn't be building housing on Venice Beach, you'd be going to cheap land just outside the city and you'd be building large-scale shelters that can house 10,000 people, not 10. You'd be having treatment services built into them. That's not what they're doing.

Chamath: By the way, do you guys want to hear this week in Grift? That's a great example of Grift. I read something today in Bloomberg that was unbelievable. There's about $2 trillion of debt owned by the developing world that has been classified by a nonprofit, the Nature Conservancy in this case, as eligible for what they called nature swaps. So this is two trillion of the umpteen trillions of debt that's about to get defaulted on by countries like Belize, Ecuador, Sri Lanka, Seychelles, you name it. And what happens now are the big bulge bracket Wall Street banks and the Nature Conservancy go to these countries and say, "Listen, you have a billion dollar tranche of debt that's about to go upside down and you're gonna be in default with the IMF. We'll let you off the hook and you know we will negotiate with those bondholders to give them 50 cents on the dollar. But in return, you have to promise to take some of that savings and protect the rainforest or protect a coral reef or protect some mangrove trees." All sounds good, except then what these folks do is they take that repackaged debt, they call it ESG, they market it back up and then they sell it to folks like Blackrock who have decided that they must own this in the portfolio. So it literally just goes from one sleeve of Blackrock, which is now marked toxic emerging market debt, and then it gets into someone's 401k as ESG debt. Is that unbelievable?

Jason: So you convert your savings and buy some ESG investments to make yourself feel good, worth two trillion dollars.

Sacks: All you know about E.S.G. is that Exxon is like the number seven top-ranked company according to E.S.G., and Tesla is even on the list. It's crazy that it's a complete game. All of those letters individually mean so much and should be worth a lot to a lot of people, but when you stick them together it creates this toxic soup where you can just hide the cheese. Yeah, governance is important in companies, of course the environment is important, social change is important, but why are these things grouped together in this? Just perverts? Alright, speaking of Microsoft, they're gonna put $10 billion or something in the chat. GPT-3 Degenerate AI, as I'm calling it now, is the hottest thing in Silicon Valley. The technology is incredible. I mean, you can question the business model maybe, but the technology is pretty well... Yeah, so what I'd say is $29 billion Azure credits a year.

Friedberg: That's one way to work at it. We should also look at a lot of other businesses that ended up being worth a lot down the road. I mean, sure you can model out the future of a business like this and create a lot of really compelling big outcomes, potentially.

Jason: So Microsoft is close to investing 10 million in OpenAI in a very convoluted transaction that people are trying to understand. It turns out that they might wind up owning 59% of OpenAI but get 75% of the cash and profits back over time, 49% of OpenAI. But they would get paid back the $10 million dollars over some amount of time. And this obviously includes Azure credits and GPT-3, as everybody knows this. It's an incredible demonstration of what AI can do in terms of text-based creation of content and answering queries, and it's taking the net by storm. People are really inspired by it. Do you think that this is a defensible real technology? Do you think this is like a crazy hype cycle?

Sacks: Well, it's definitely the next VC hype cycle. Everyone's kind of glomming onto this because VC really needs a savior right now. Just look at the public markets; everything we're investing in is in the toilet. So we all really want to believe that this is gonna be the next wave. And just because something is a VC hype cycle doesn't mean that it's not true. So, as I think one of our friends pointed out, you know, mobile turned out to be very real. I think cloud turned out to be, I'd say, very real. Social was sort of real in the sense that it did lead to a few big winners. On the other hand, Web 3 and crypto was a hype cycle that hasn't turned into a big bust yet, probably a hype cycle so far. No one can even explain what Web 3 is. In terms of AI, I think that if I had to guess I would say the hype is real in terms of its technological potential. However, I'm not sure about how much potential there is yet for VCs to participate because right now it seems like this is something that's going to be done by really big companies. So OpenAI is basically a, it looks like kind of a Microsoft proxy. You've got Google, I'm sure they'll develop it through their DeepMind asset, and you know I'm sure Facebook is gonna do something huge in AI. So what I don't know is, is this really a platform that startups are gonna be able to benefit from? I will say that some of the companies we've invested in are starting to use these tools. So, I guess I guess where I am is I think the technology is actually exciting. I wouldn't go overboard on the valuations. I wouldn't buy into that level of the hype.

Jason: But you think there could be hundreds of companies built around an API for something like GPT-3?

Sacks: Maybe. Yeah, I don't think startups are going to be able to create the AI themselves, but they might be able to benefit from the APIs. Maybe that's the thing that has to be proven out.

Friedberg: There's a lot of really fantastic machine learning services available through cloud vendors today. Right. So, as there has been one of these kind of vendors, and obviously OpenAI is building tools a little bit further down on the stack, but there's a lot of tooling that can be used for specific vertical applications. Obviously the acquisition of Instacart by Bio and Tech is a really solid example. And most of the big dollars that are flowing in biotech right now are flowing into machine learning applications where there's some vertical application of machine learning tooling and techniques around some specific problem set. And the problem set of mimicking human communication and doing generative media is a consumer application set that has a whole bunch of really interesting product opportunities. But let's not kind of be blind to the fact that nearly every other industry and nearly every other vertical is being transformed today. And there's active progress being made in funding and getting liquidity on companies and progress with actual products being driven by machine learning systems. And there's a lot of great examples of this. So, you know, the fundamental capabilities of large data sets, and then using these kind of learning techniques in software and statistical models to make kind of predictions and drive businesses forward in a way that they're not able to with just human knowledge and human capability alone is really real. And it's here today. And so I think let's not get caught up in the fact that there's this really interesting consumer market hype cycle going on where these tools are not being kind of, you know, validated and generating real value across many other verticals and segments.

Jason: When you look at this Microsoft opportunity and you see something that is this, it can be difficult to understand what it signals to you as a capital allocator and company builder.

Chamath: I would categorize deals into two buckets. One is easy and straightforward, and the other is more complex. This one clearly falls into the latter category, but that doesn't mean it won't work in our group chat with the rest of the guys. Someone said there's a lot of complex law when transitioning from a nonprofit to a for-profit, and there's a lot of complexity in deal construction. The original investors have certain expectations that they want to see.

Chamath: There may or may not be legal issues at play here that you encapsulated. In the last episode, there's a lot of stuff we don't know, so it's important to give those folks the benefit of the doubt. If you're asking me, it's in the "too hard" bucket for me to take seriously. That being said, I haven't seen the deal, so I can't comment. Here's what I will say: the first part of what Sacks said is really important for entrepreneurs to internalize, which is "Where can we make money?" I think Google will open source their models because the most important thing they can do is reinforce the value of search, and the best way to do that is to make them widely available and as free as possible. That will cause Microsoft to have to catch up, and Facebook to really look in the mirror and decide whether they're going to cap the bet they've made on AR/VR and reallocate very aggressively to AI. I mentioned this on the Lex Friedman podcast, but that should be what Facebook does. The reason is, if Facebook, Google, and Microsoft have roughly the same capability in the same model, there's an element of machine learning called reinforcement learning from human feedback. These are LHF pipelines, and they're what will make your stuff unique. So if you're a startup, you can build a reinforcement learning pipeline, build a product that captures a bunch of usage, and that data set is unique to you as a company. You can feed that into these models, get back better answers, and make money from it. Facebook has an enormous amount of reinforcement learning inside of Facebook, every click, comment, like, and share. Twitter has that data set, Google inside of Gmail and search, and Microsoft inside of Minecraft and Hotmail. So my point is, David's right: the huge companies will create the substrates, and they'll be forced to scorch the earth and give it away for free.

Chamath: And then on top of that is where you can make money, and I would just encourage entrepreneurs to think, "Where is my edge in creating a data set that I can use for reinforcement learning that I think is interesting?" That's kind of saying, "I buy the ingredients from the supermarket, but then I can still construct a dish that's unique. The salt is there, the pepper is there, but how I use that will determine whether you like the thing or not." And I think that, you know, that is the way that I think we need to start thinking about it.

Jason: Interestingly, as we've all pointed out here, when OpenAI was started as a nonprofit, the stated philosophy was, "This technology is too powerful for any company to own. Therefore, we're going to make it open source." And then, somewhere in the last couple of years, they said, "Well, you know what? Actually, it's too powerful for it to be out there in the public. We need to make this a private company and we need to get $10 billion dollars from Microsoft." That is the disconnect I am trying to understand.

Friedberg: That's the most interesting part of the story, Jason. I think if you go back to 2014, that's when Google bought DeepMind, and immediately everyone started reacting to a company as powerful as Google having a toolkit and a team as powerful as DeepMind within them. And that sort of power shouldn't sit in anyone's hands. I heard people close to the organization and the company comment that they thought this was the most scary, threatening, and biggest threat to humanity: Google's control of DeepMind. And that was a naive point of view, but it was one that was deeply held by a lot of people. So Reid Hoffman, Peter Thiel, Elon Musk - a lot of these guys funded the original Open AI business in 2015. Here's the link, so I'm putting it out here. You guys can pull up the original blog post.

Friedberg: So, what happened was that it was all in a non-profit, and then the non-profit owned stock in a commercial business. But your point is interesting because, at the beginning, the idea was that instead of having Google and all of this, they would make it all available. Here's the statement from the original blog post in 2015: Open AI is a non-profit AI research company. Our goal is to advance digital intelligence in the way that is most likely to benefit humanity as a whole, unconstrained by a need to generate financial return. Since our research is free from financial obligations, we can better focus on the positive human impact." And then they went on. And the whole thing about Sam, Greg, Elon, Reid, Jessica, Peter Thiel, all donating to support Open AI, including donations and commitments of over a billion dollars, although we expect that to only be a tiny fraction of what we will spend in the next few years. That's a really interesting historical perspective on how this thing all started seven years ago and how quickly it's evolved, as you point out, into the necessity to have a real commercial alignment to drive this thing forward without seeing any of these models open source. During that same period of time, we've seen Google share AlphaFold and share a number of predictive models and toolkits and make them publicly available and put them in Google's cloud. And so there's both tooling and models and outputs of those models that Google has open sourced and made freely available. Meanwhile, Open AI has kind of diverged into this deeply profitable, profit-seeking kind of enterprise model. And when you invest in Open AI, in the round that they did before, you could generate a financial return capped at 100X, which is still a pretty amazing financial return. You put a billion dollars in, you can make $100 billion. That's funding a real commercial endeavor at that point.

Friedberg: Well, then it is the most striking question about this whole thing regarding what's going on in AI, and it's one that Elon has talked about publicly and others have kind of taken sides on. AI offers a glimpse into one of the biggest and most existential threats to humanity, and the question we're all going to be tackling, and the battle that's going to be happening politically, regulatory-wise, and perhaps even between nations in the years to come is: who owns the AI, who owns the models, what can they do with it, and what are we legally going to be allowed to do with it? This is a really important part of the story, yeah.

Jason: To build on what you were saying, I just mentioned PyTorch, which people may not know. That's another framework, P.Y.T.O.R.C.H. This was largely built inside of Facebook, and then Facebook said, "Hey, we want to democratize machine learning," so they made it open source and put a bunch of executives to work on the project. They have a huge stake in this. Then, TensorFlow, which you don't have an investment in, came out of Google, and then you invested in another company.

Chamath: I don't have an investment in TensorFlow. We were building silicon for machine learning.

Jason: Right, but it's based on TensorFlow.

Chamath: No, no, no. The founder of this company was the founder of TensorFlow, not part of me, of the TPU, which was Google's internal silicon that they built to accelerate TensorFlow. Does that make sense?

Jason: And so, that's the thing. I don't mean to be cynical about the whole project or anything, it's just the confounding part of this of what is happening here. It reminds me, I don't know if you remember this, the biggest opportunity here.

Chamath: The biggest opportunity here is for Facebook. I mean, they need to get in this conversation ASAP. I mean, to think that, like, PyTorch was like a pretty seminal piece of technology that a lot of folks in AI and machine learning were using for a long time, TensorFlow before that, and what's so funny about like Google and Facebook is they're a little bit kind of like they're not really making that much progress. I mean, Facebook released this kind of like random version of AlphaFold recently. It's not that good. I think these companies really need to get these products in the wild as soon as possible. It cannot be the case that you have to email people and get on some list. I mean, this is Google and Facebook, guys, come on, get it.

Jason: This is the, I think, the big innovation of OpenAI, to bring you in the conversation. They actually made an interface and let the public play with it to the tune of $3 million a day in cloud credits or costs, which, by the way, just on that, my son was telling me, he's like, "Hey, Dad, do you want me to tell you when the best time to use GPT-3 is?" I'm like, "Huh?" He's like, "Yeah, my friends and I tried, we've been using it so much. We know now when we can actually get resources, and it's such an interesting thing where like a 13-year-old kid knows, you know, when it's mostly compute intensive that it's unusable and when to come back and use it last."

Sacks: It's been a while. I don't know, maybe the iPhone or something. Yeah, look, it's powerful. There's no question it's powerful. I mean, I'm of two minds about it because whenever something is in the hype cycle, I just reflexively want to be skeptical of it. But on the other hand, we have made a few investments in this area, and I mean, I think it is powerful and it's going to be an enabler of some really cool things to come. There's no question about it.

Jason: I have two pieces of more insider information. One, I have a ChatGPT iOS app on my phone. One of the nice folks at OpenAI included me in the test flight, and it's the simplest interface you've ever seen. But basically, you type in your question and it keeps your history, and then you can search your history. So, it looks sort of like you're an iMessage, basically, and it has your threads. And so, I asked him, "Hey, what are the best restaurants in Yonville? A town near, um, Napa?" And then I said, "Which one has the best duck?" And it literally gave me a great answer. And then I thought, "Wait a second, why isn't this using a Siri or Alexa-like interface?" And then why isn't it? Oh, here's a video of it. I gave the video to Nick.

Chamath: By the way, Jason, this is what you're doing right now: you're creating a human feedback reinforcement learning pipeline for ChatGPT. So, just the fact that you asked that question, and you know, over time, if ChatGPT has access to your GPS information and then knows that you went to restaurant A versus B, you can input it and it may actually prompt you to ask, "Hey, Jason, we noticed you were in the area. Did you go to Bottega? If you did, how would you rate it? One through five?" That reinforcement learning now allows the next person that asks, "What are the top five restaurants?" to say, "Well, you know, over 1,000 people have asked this question. Here is actually the best answer versus a generic rank of the open web, which is what the first dataset is. That's what's so interesting about this. So, this is why if you're a company that already owns the eyeballs, you have to be running to get this stuff out there.

Jason: And then this answer, uh, you know, cited Yelp. Well, this is the first time I've actually seen ChatGPT cite and this is, I think, a major legal breakthrough. It didn't put a link in, but if it's gonna use Yelp's data, I don't know if they have permission from Yelp, but it's quoting Yelp here. It should link to French Laundry, Bottega, and Bouchon. Bouchon actually has the best duck confit, for the record, and I did have that duck. So, I asked this afterwards to see, you know, in a scenario like this, but it could also, if I was talking to it, I could say, "Hey, which one has availability this afternoon or tomorrow for dinner," and make the phone call for me, like Google Assistant does, or any number of tasks. This was an incredibly powerful display in a 1.0 product.

Chamath: I was thinking about what you said last week and I thought back to the music industry and, in the world of Napster, and what happened was there were a lot of musicians, with Metallica being the most famous one, famously suing Napster because it was like, "Hey, listen, you're allowing people to take my content which they would otherwise pay for. There's economic damage that I can measure." That legal argument was meaningful enough that ultimately Napster was shut down. Now there are other versions of that that folks created, including us at Winamp, we created a headless version of that. But if you translate that problem set here, is there a claim that Yelp can make in this example that they're losing money? That is, if you were going through Google or if you're going through their app, there's the sponsored link revenue and the advertising revenue that they would have got that they wouldn't get from here. Now that doesn't mean that ChatGPT can't figure that out, but it's those kinds of problems that are going to be a little thorny in these next few years that have to really get figured out.

Sacks: If you were a human reading every review on Yelp about Duck, then you could write a blog post in which you say many reviewers on Yelp say that it is the best duck. So the question is, is GPT held to that same standard, or something different? And is it linking to it enough?

Chamath: This is the question that I'm asking. I don't know.

Jason: It should be because I'll argue it should be because if you look at the four-part test for fair use, which I had to go through because blogging had the same issue, we would write a blog post and we would mention Walt Mossberg's review of a product and somebody else's. Then people would say, 'Oh, I don't need to read Walt Mossberg's review, I have a Wall Street Journal subscription.' And we would say, 'Well, we're doing an original work. We're comparing two or three different reviews and we're adding something to it. It's not interfering with Walt Mossberg's ability to get subscribers in the Wall Street Journal.' But the effect on the potential market is one of the four tests. And just reading from Stanford's quote on fair use, another important fair use factor is whether your use deprives the copyright owner of income or undermines a new potential market for the copyrighted work. Depriving a copyright owner of income is very likely to trigger a lawsuit, even if you're not competing directly with the original work. We'll put the link to Stanford here. This is the key issue and I would not use help in this example. I would not open the Yelp data. Yelp would get no commerce and Yelp would lose this. So, chat GPT and all these services must use citations of where they got the original work. They must link to them and they must get permission. That's where this is all going to shake out."

Sacks: I believe permission, I mean, you can't get a big enough data set if you have to get permission in advance, right?"

Jason: It's going to be the large datasets. Yelp, the App Store reviews, Amazon's reviews. So, there are large corpora of data that you would need. Like Craigslist has famously never allowed anybody to scrape Craigslist. The amount of data inside Craigslist as one example of a dataset would be extraordinary to build chat GPT on. Chat GPT is not allowed to because, as you brought up robots.txt last week, there's gonna need to be an AI.txt. Are you allowed to use my dataset in AI and under what conditions? And how will I be compensated for it? I'll allow you to use Craigslist, but you have to link to the original post and you have to note that the other..."

Chamath: Gray area that isn't there today but may emerge is when Section 230 gets rewritten because if they take the protections away for the Facebooks and the Googles of the world for being an algorithmic publisher and saying an algorithm is equivalent to a publisher, what is essentially saying is that an algorithm is kind of like doing the work of a human in a certain context. And I wonder whether that's also an angle here, which now this algorithm which today David you use, you said the example I read all these blog posts I write something, but if an algorithm does it, maybe can you then say no, actually there was intent there that's different than if a human were to do it. I don't know. My point is, very complicated issues that are going to get sorted out. And I think the problem with the hype cycle is that you're going to have to marry it with an economic model for VCs to really make money and right now there's just too much betting on the come. So, to the extent you're going to invest, it makes sense that you put money into open AI because that's safe, because the economic model of how you make money for everybody else is so unclear."

Jason: It's clear actually. I just signed up for chat GPT premium. They had a survey that they shared on their Discord server and I filled out the survey and they did a price discovery survey. Friedberg, what's the least you would pay, the most you would pay, what would be too cheap of a price for chat GPT Pro and what would be too high of a price? I put in like fifty bucks a month was what I would pay. But I was just thinking, imagine chat GPT allowed you, Friedberg, to have a Slack channel called research and you could go in there or any time you're in Slack you do slash chat or slash chat GPT and you say slash chat GPT. Tell me, you know, what are the venues available in which we did this actually for, I did this for venues for on Sunday. I said what are the venues that seat over three thousand people in Vegas? And it just gave us the answer. Okay, well that was the job of the local event planner. They had that list. Now you can pull that list from a bunch of different sources. I mean, what would you pay for that a lot?"

Friedberg: Well, I think one of the big things that's happening is all the old business models don't make sense anymore. In a world where the software is no longer just doing what it's done for the last sixty years, which is what is historically defined as information retrieval. So, you have this kind of hierarchical storage of data that you have some index against and then you go and you search and you pull data out and then you present that data back to the customer or the user of the software and that's effectively been how all kind of data has been utilized in all systems for the past sixty years in computing. Largely what we've really done is kind of built an evolution of application layers or software tools to interface with the fetching of that data, the retrieval of that data and the display of that data. But what these systems are now doing, what AI type systems or machine learning systems now do, is the synthesis of that data and the representation of some synthesis of that data to you, the user, in a way that doesn't necessarily look anything like the original data that was used to make that synthesis. And that's where business models like Yelp, for example, or like a web crawler that crawls the web and then presents web page directories to you. Those sorts of models no longer make sense in a world where the software, the signal to noise is now greater. The signal is greater than the noise in being able to present to you a synthesis of that data and basically resolve what your objective is with your own consumption and interpretation of that data, which is how you historically use these systems."

Friedberg: And I think that's where we're going back to the question of the hype cycle. I don't think it's about being a hype cycle. I think it's about the investment opportunity of fundamentally rewriting all compute tools. If all compute tools can use this capability in their interface and in their modeling, then it very much changes everything. One of the advantages businesses will latch onto, which we've talked about historically, is novelty in their data. Being able to build new systems and new models that aren't generally available, in biotech and pharma for example, having screening results from very expensive experiments and running lots of experiments and having a lot of data against those experiments gives a company an advantage in drug discovery. We'll talk about that in a minute, versus everyone using publicly known screening libraries or publicly available protein modeling libraries and then screening against those, and then everyone has the same candidates, the same targets, and the same clinical objectives they're trying to resolve from that output. So, I think novelty and data is one way that advantage kind of arises, but really, that's just kind of where is there an edge. But fundamentally, every business model can and will need to be rewritten, that's dependent on the legacy of information retrieval as the core of what computing is used to do.

Jason: On my other podcast, I was having a discussion with Molly about the legal profession. What impact would it be if chat GPT took every court case, every argument, every document, and somebody took all of those legal cases and the legal profession and then the filing of a lawsuit, the defending of a lawsuit, public defenders, prosecutors? What data could you figure out? And then, just to think of the recent history, look at Chester Boudin. You could literally take every case, every argument he did, put it through it, and say, versus an outcome in another state, and you could figure out what's actually going on with this technology. What impact did this have on the legal field? You are a non-practicing attorney with a legal degree.

Sacks: I never practiced law other than one summer at a law firm. But yes, I did pass the bar. Yes, I just tried. Yes, of course.

Chamath: I may not have passed the bar, but I know enough to know that you can't. I would be curious in terms of a very common question that an associate at a law firm would get asked, such as summarizing the legal precedents in favor of X. Right? And I can imagine GPT doing that instantly. Now, I think there are two questions. One is, can you prompt GPT in the right way to get the answer you want? And I think Matthew shared a really interesting video showing that people are developing some skills around knowing how to ask GPT questions in the right way, which is called prompt engineering. Why? Because GPT is a command line interface. So if you ask GPT a simple question, like what's the best restaurant in Napa, it knows how to answer that. But there are much more complicated questions that you kind of need to know how to prompt in the right way. So it's not clear to me that a command line interface is the best way of doing that. I can imagine apps developing that create more of a GUI. So, we're an investor for example in Copy AI, which is doing this for copywriters and marketers, helping them write blog posts and emails. So, I imagine putting that GUI on top of ChatGPT. They've already been kind of doing this. So, I think that's part of it. I think the other part of it is on the answer side. You know, how accurate is it? Because in some professions, having 90 or 95 or 99% accuracy is okay, but in other professions, you need six nines accuracy, meaning 99.9999% accuracy. Okay. So, I think for a lawyer going into court, you know, you probably need, I don't know, it depends on... Yeah, exactly. So, is 99% accuracy good enough? Is 95% accuracy good enough? I would say probably for a court case, 95% is probably not good enough. I'm not sure GPT is even 95% yet.

Sacks: But could it be helpful? Could the associates start with ChatGPT to get an answer and then validate it? Probably. Yeah.

Chamath: If you had a bunch of associates working on some law model for a year, that's reinforcement learning we just talked about, I think you'd get precision and recall off the charts and it would be perfect. Just a cute thing. I don't know if you guys got this email that came about an hour ago from Reid Hoffman. Reid said to me he created a Fireside Chat Bot, a special podcast miniseries where he will be having a set of conversations with Chat GPT. You can go to YouTube and see Reid having a conversation with it. It has an AI-generated voice powered by the text-to-speech platform Play.ht.

Jason: I mean, we have a conversation with the two Davids every week. What's the difference? We know how this is gonna turn out.

Sacks: But actually synthesizing Jamas's point about reinforcement learning with something you said, Jake Allen, in our chat, which I actually thought was pretty smart.

Jason: Well, that's the first thing.

Sacks: Yeah, so I'm gonna give you credit here because I don't think you've said it on this episode. As you said, these AI capabilities are eventually going to become commoditized or certainly much more widely available. I don't know if that means that they'll be totally commoditized or if there will be four players, but there'll be multiple players that offer them. And you said the real advantage will come from applications that are able to get ahold of proprietary data sets, and then use the proprietary datasets to generate insights. And then, layering on what you said about reinforcement learning, if you can be the first out there in a given vertical with a proprietary data set, and then you get the advantage of reinforcement learning, that would be the way to create, I think, a sustainable business.

Chamath: Just to build on what you said, this week is the JPMorgan Conference. Friedberg mentioned it last week at dinner on Wednesday with this really interesting company based in Zurich. And what they have is basically a library of ligands. Right. And so these ligands are used as a substrate to deliver all kinds of molecules inside the body. And what's interesting is that they have a portfolio of like 1000 of these. But really what they have is they have all the nuclear medicine data about whether it works. So, you know, they target glioblastoma and so all of a sudden they can say, "Well, this ligand can actually cross the blood-brain barrier and get to the brain." They have an entire dataset of that and a whole bunch of nuclear imagery around that. They have something for soft cell carcinoma. So then they have that dataset. So, to your point, that's really valuable because that's real work that Google or Microsoft or Open AI won't do right and if you have that and you bring it to the problem, you can probably make money. You know, there's a business there to be built.

Jason: Just building on this conversation, I just realized like a great prompt engineer is going to become a title and an actual skill. The ability to interface with these AI engineers. Well, no, a prompt engineer somebody who is very good at talking to these instances and and and maximizing the result for them and refining the results for them. Just like a detective who asks great questions, that person is going to be 10 or 20 times more valuable. They could be the proverbial 10X engineer in the future. As we talk about austerity and doing more with less and the 80% less people running Twitter now or Amazon laying off 18,000 people, Salesforce laying off 8,000, Facebook laying off 10,000 and probably another 10,000, what catalytic effect could this have? We could be sitting here in three or four or five years and instead of running a company like Twitter with 80% less people, maybe you could run it with 98% less people.

Friedberg: Look, I think directionally it's the right statement. I mean, you know, I've made the statement a number of times that I think we moved from this idea of a creator economy to a narrator economy. Where historically it was kind of a labor economy where humans used their physical labor to do things, then we were knowledge workers, we used our brains to make things, and then ultimately we kind of resolved to this narrator economy where the way that you can kind of state intention and better manipulate the tools to drive your intentional outcome, the more successful you're gonna be. And you can kind of think about this as being the artist of the past. Da Vinci was what made him so good was he was technically incredible, trying to reproduce a photographic-like imagery using paint. And there's these really great kind of museum exhibits on how he did it using these really interesting kind of like split mirror systems. And then the better artist of the 21st century was the best user of Adobe Photoshop and that person is not necessarily the best painter. And the artist of the 22nd century isn't going to look like the Photoshop expert and it's not gonna look like the painter. It's gonna look like something entirely different. It could be who's got the most creative imagination in driving the software to drive new outcomes. And I think that the same analogy can be used across every market and every industry. However, one thing to note, Jake, it's not about austerity because the Luddite argument is when you have new tools and you get more leverage from those tools, you have less work for people to do and therefore everyone suffers. The reality is new work emerges and new opportunities emerge and we level up as a species and when we level up, we all kind of fill the gaps and expand our productivity and our capability set.

Chamath: I thought what Jake was saying was more that Google will be smaller, but that didn't mean that the pie wouldn't grow. It's just that that individual company is run differently, but there will be hundreds or thousands more companies or millions more.

Jason: More. That's sort of I have an actual punch up for you instead of narrative. It's the conductor economy. It's like you're conducting a symphony, a punch up, punch up there. But I do think like we're gonna there's gonna be somebody who's sitting there like remember Tom Cruise in Minority Report as a detective was moving stuff around with the interface and you know with the gloves and everything. This is kind of that manifested. You could even if you're not an attorney you can say, "Hey, I want to sue this company for copyright infringement. Give me my best arguments," and then on the other side say, "Hey, I want to know what the next three features I should put into my product is. Can you examine who are my top 20 competitors and then who they hired in the last six months? And what are those people talking about on Twitter?" You can have this conductor who becomes really good at that?

Friedberg: Yeah, the leveling up that happens in the book Ender's Game I think is a good example of this where the guy goes through the entire kind of ground up and then ultimately he's commanding armies of spaceships and space and his orchestration of all of these armies is actually the skill set that wins the war. Yeah.

Chamath: People predicted that there would be like all these people that create these next gen forms of content. But I think this Reid Hoffman thing could be pretty cool. Like what if he wins a Grammy for his computer-created podcast mini-series?

Friedberg: The thing I'm really excited about is when's the first AI novel gonna get published by a major publisher? I think it happens this year. When's the first AI symphony gonna get performed by a major symphony orchestra? And when's the first AI-generated screenplay get turned into an AI-generated 3D movie that we all watch? And then the more exciting one I think is when do we all get to make our own AI video game where we instruct the video game platform what world we wanna live in? I don't think that's happening for the next three or four years, but when it does, I think everyone's got these new immersive environments that they can live in.

Chamath: I have a question: when I say live in, I mean video games. When you have these computer systems just like to use a question of game theory for a second there, these models are iterating rapidly. These are all mathematical models, so inherent in let's just say this is the perfect answer right? Like if you had perfect precision recall, if multiple models get there at a system-wide level, everybody is sort of like they get to the game theory optimal, they're all at Nash equilibrium, right? All these systems working at the same time, then the real question would then be what the hell do you do then? Because if you keep getting the same answer, if everybody then knows how to ask the exact right question, and you start to go through these iterations where you're like, maybe there is a dystopian hellscape where there are no jobs, maybe that's the Elon world, which is you can you can recursively find a logical argument where there is no job that's possible, right? And now I'm not saying that that path is the likely path, but I'm saying it is important to keep in mind that that path of outcomes is still very important to keep in the back of our mind as we figure these things out.

Jason: Well, Friedberg, you know you were asking before about this, like, you know, will more work be created? Of course, artistic pursuits, podcasting is a job now, being an influencer is a job, yada yada, new things emerge in the world. But here in the United States in 1970, I'm looking at, um, Fred, look at the St. Louis Fed, 1970, 26.4% of the country was working in a factory, was working in manufacturing. You want to guess what that is in 2012? 10%. It was 26% in 1970 and in 2015 when they stopped the percentage in manufacturing states that they discontinued this, it was 10%. So it's possible we could just see, you know, the concept of office work, the concept of knowledge work is going to follow a pretty inevitable path of manufacturing. That that seems like a pretty logical theory, or no? I think we should move on. So, how would we like to ruin the show now? Should we talk about Biden and the documents and ruin the show with political dog or should we talk about, since it's been such a great episode so far, what do we want to talk about next? Couple of choices, you guys are talking about?

Sacks: We all know, we all know, second, we all know, Jaeckel, that according to you, when a president is in possession of classified documents in his home that apparently have been taken in an unauthorized manner, basically stolen, he should have his home raided by the FBI.

Jason: Almost close, close. Yeah, if so, anyway, the Biden, as of the taping of this, has now said there's a third batch of classified documents. This group, I guess there was one at an office, one at a library. Now this third group is in his garage with his Corvette. Certainly not looking good. Uh...

Sacks: Independence. They say that in his defense, they say the garage was locked, meaning that you could use a garage door opener to open or close it. It was locked when it went closed. Pretty much as secure as the documents at Mar-a-Lago. Same equivalency.

Sacks: No, no, no. To be perfectly fair, the documents at Mar-a-Lago were locked in the basement. The FBI came and checked it out. They said, "We'd like you to lock those up," so they were locked up, making them a little bit safer, but functionally the same.

Jason: The same. The only difference here would be what stands out when you look at these two cases.

Sacks: Well, in one case, Merrick Garland has appointed an independent counsel to investigate Trump, and there's no such special counsel or investigator appointed to investigate Biden. I mean, these things are functioning, but...

Jason: Somebody's on it, though.

Sacks: I don't think they've appointed a special counsel yet.

Friedberg: No, they did. As of an hour ago, a special counsel was appointed. Okay. Did that just happen? Yeah, one hour ago, Robert.

Sacks: Okay, I guess there are some real questions to look into here. The documents were apparently removed twice. Why were they moved and in what order? What was a classified document doing in Biden's personal library? What do the documents pertain to? They seem to touch on the Biden family's business dealings in Ukraine and China. So, there are some real things to look into here. But let me just take a step back. Now that the last three presidential candidates have been ensnared in these classified document problems—Biden now, then Trump, and Hillary Clinton before Trump—I think it's time to step back and ask: Are we over-classifying documents? I mean, are we fetishizing these documents? Are they all really that sensitive? It seems to me that we have an over-classification problem. Meaning that, ever since FOIA—the Freedom of Information Act—was passed, the government can avoid accountability and prying eyes by simply labeling any document as classified. So, over-classification was the logical response by the permanent government to the Freedom of Information Act. And now it's gotten to the point where just about everything handed to a president or vice president is classified. So, I think I can understand why they're all making this mistake, and I think a compounding problem is that we never declassify anything. There are still all these records from the Kennedy assassination—that's crazy.

Jason: They were supposed to have declassified these documents, but the C.I.A. keeps filibustering on the release of the JFK assassination documents. They've been told they have to stop and release them, but they keep redacting stuff which is making it difficult. I hate to be a conspiracy theorist here, but what are they trying to cover up? I mean, this happened a long time ago.

Sacks: That's the only way to interpret it. But even for more mundane documents, there are very few that need to be classified after, say, five years. You could argue that we should be automatically declassifying them after five years, unless they go through a process to get reclassified. I mean, what do you guys in business do? I know it's not government business. How many of the documents that you deal with are still sensitive or trade secrets five years later?

Jason: Certainly not 20 years later. Like, five years?

Sacks: Yeah, five years. I mean, the only documents in business that I think I deal with that you could call sensitive are the ones that pertain to the company's future plans, right? Because you wouldn't want a competitor to get those. There's a handful of things.

Chamath: Even the captain isn't that sensitive, because by the time you go public, it has to be public. Yeah. It's like there are 100 people who have that. I mean, it's so in business, I think our experience has been that there are very few documents that need to remain secret. Now, look, if Biden or Trump, whoever, is reviewing the schematics to the Javelin missile system or two, or how we make our nuclear bombs or something, obviously that needs to stay secret forever. But I don't believe our politicians are reviewing those kinds of documents. We both don't really understand what it is that they're reviewing.

Jason: Why are they keeping it classified for five years?

Jason: Why are they keeping them? Was the issue we discussed previously resolved? We actually agreed on that. I think they're just keeping Mementos.

Sacks: I think there's a simple explanation for why they're keeping them, Jason, which is that everything is more classified. And there are a zillion documents, both from Biden and Trump. These documents were mixed in with a bunch of personal effects and mementos. My point is, if you work in government and handle documents, they're all classified.

Jason: If the national archive asked for them back or you find them, you should just give them back. I mean, that is what's going to wind up being the right thing to do. Didn't give them back? So that's the only difference here.

Sacks: Well, no, no, no. Hold on. The FBI went to Trump's basement. They looked around, they said, "Put a lock on this." They seemed to be okay with it initially, then maybe they changed their minds. I don't know. I'm not defending Trump, but that's the point I'm making. Is that now that Biden, Trump, and Hillary Clinton have all been ensnared in this, is it time to rethink the fact that we're over-classifying so many documents? I mean, just think about the incentives that we're creating for our politicians. Okay, just think about the incentives: number one, never use email. Remember Hillary Clinton and the whole email server? You gotta be nuts to use email. Number two, never touch a document. Never let anyone hand you a document. Never let one hand you a document. I mean, if you're a politician or an elected official, the only time you should ever be handling anything is going to a clean room.

Sacks: You know, make an appointment, go in to read something, don't take notes, don't bring a camera, and then leave. I mean, this is no way to run a government. It's crazy. Who does this benefit? Who does this benefit? It doesn't benefit our elected officials. It makes it almost impossible for them to act like normal people. It benefits the insiders. The permanent government.

Jason: You're missing the most important part about this, Sacks. If you want to go into conspiracy, there is this: Biden planted the documents so that we can create the false equivalency and start up Biden versus Trump 2020. This ensures that now Trump has something to fight with Biden about, and this is going to help Trump because...

Chamath: They're both tainted, equally tainted from the same source, puts Trump in the news cycle.

Sacks: No, I think it's the opposite. I think Merrick Garland now is going to have to drop the prosecution against Trump for the stolen documents, or at least that part of what they're investigating him for. They might still be investigating him over January 6th or something. It's going to be more sticky with Georgia, yeah I agree with that. Actually, I think it's gonna be hard to do.

Sacks: But my point is, just think about it: both sides are engaged in hyper-partisanship right now. The conservatives and the right are attacking Biden for the same thing the left was attacking Trump for. My point is, take a step back and think about the incentives we're creating for how to run our government. You can't use email, you can't touch documents, and by the way, if you're a business person, don't ever go into politics because they will investigate every deal you ever did privately prior to getting into politics.

Jason: What are you going to do when you try to get your Treasury position? What's it going to be like?

Sacks: Nuts! You'd have to be nuts to go for it. So, you're not going to take a position that the Washington insiders, by which I mean the permanent Washington establishment, i.e. the deep state, are creating a system in which they're running things and the elected officials can barely operate like normal functioning humans. It's interesting, that's what's going on.

Chamath: I heard a great rumor. This is total gossip mongering. Oh, here we go. Uh, I heard that Ken Griffin's best bet is to get selected as Treasury Secretary. I mean, if he wanted it, Ken Griffin would get it, and then he would be able to divest all of Citadel tax-free. So he would make the market like $30 billion, which is a genius way to go out. Then it occurred to me, "Oh my God, that's my and Sachs's path with a lot less money." But why would it be tax-free? When you get appointed to those senior posts, you're allowed to either stick it in a blind trust or you can sell with no capital gains. What? Yeah.

Sacks: What? Because they want you to divest. Yes, anything that presents a conflict, they want you to divest. And so the argument is, if you're forced to divest to enter government, you shouldn't be forced to do so.

Jason: If I become mayor of San Francisco or Austin,

Friedberg: Secretary of Transportation, I'm qualified for that.

Jason: I'd take the bus. I got an electric bike.

Chamath: To answer Friedberg's point, I think Citadel Securities, there's a lot of folks that would buy that because that's just the securities trading business and then Citadel the hedge fund, probably something like a big bulge bracket bank or Blackstone, probably Blackstone. In fact, because now Blackstone can plug it into a trillion-dollar asset machine, I think there would be buyers out the door.

Jason: This is an incredible gift. Now I know why such a cabinet position has no cap gains.

Chamath: It's not a gift at all, but it's an incredible loss. They forced you to sell everything. I think you're misusing the word to continue to genuflect to the left, or you're just not understanding.

Friedberg: That's what I think.

Jason: You take a cabinet position. Where does that exist?

Friedberg: If you were asked to serve.

Sacks: Look, any normal person who wants to serve in government can't use email, can't touch a document, and every deal they've ever done gets investigated. Why would you want to do it? That you get to divest tax free?

Chamath: I think you protested too much, David. The fact is...

Jason: That you know this rule and...

Friedberg: I don't know. It's like people I look up to...

Chamath: Engage it means to engage in a petty or small-scale swindle. I don't think selling a $31 billion BlackRock and Blackstone would be considered a petty small-scale.

Friedberg: Did any of you watch the Madoff series on Netflix? No? Oh my goodness, it's so depressing. I have to say, that Madoff series, there's no glimmer of light, hope, positivity, or recourse; everyone is a victim and everyone suffers. It's just so dark. Don't watch it; it's so depressing. That one is really depressing; it's so victimizing.

Chamath: One person died of cancer.

Friedberg: It was a hard choice. I didn't realize that the trustee had gone and taken money from people who were 80 years old and retired, and had spent that money decades ago. He sued them and took their homes away, and no one had any idea that they were part of the scam. It was a brutal and awful situation.

Chamath: By the way, that's going to be really interesting as we enter this SPF trial because that is the track that is what happens if you got another district of New York said that this case is becoming too big for them because all the places that SPF said money all those packs and all those political donations, they have to go and investigate where that money went and see if they can get it back and it's going to open up an investigation into each one of these campaign finance and election and kind of interfering, ProPublica, on the other end of the spectrum. I did watch this weekend, 'Triangle of Sadness'. Have you guys watched?

Jason: God, this is great. It's so dark.

Chamath: To the Davids. Listen, this is one of the best setups you'll see in a movie. So basically, it's a bunch of people on a luxury yacht. So you have a bunch of rich people as the guests, then you have the staff that interacts with them. This is mostly caucasian and then under in the bowels of the ship what you see are Asian and black workers that support them. Okay, so in some ways, it's a little bit of a microcosm of the world, in a microcosm of something else.

Chamath: And then, what happens is there's a shipwreck. Right. So, the plot is, you have this caucasian patriarchy that gets flipped upside down because after the shipwreck, the only person who knows how to make a fire and catch the fish is the Filipino woman who is in charge of cleaning the toilets. So, she becomes in charge. So now you have this immigrant matriarch instead.

Jason: That's a great meditation on class and it's really well done.

Chamath: It didn't end well. I thought I had thought.

Jason: It's hard to wrap that one up. Well, you know what they say: Boys will be boys, and they'll throw you in jail, but they'll make you king." That's a famous Bob Dylan quote. Alright, well it's been a great episode. Great to see you, besties. What's on the austerity menu tonight? What are we having? Salad and some tuna sandwiches?

Chamath: No, I think Kirsten is doing a rod draw. Yeah, that's Jake. I once had a great day rod fishing in Venice, and the best meal I've ever had. So good. I agree.

Chamath: When it's done well, the dirac kicks in.

Sacks: There's only one way to cook a fish. Do you know what that is? You gotta do it the way they did in Venice; you gotta cook the whole fish. Okay, and then after you cook the fish, then you debone it, and that's the way to do it.

Jason: That was back when Sacks and I used to enjoy each other's company. Podcasts have made us into mortal enemies.

Sacks: Jacob, I'm a little disappointed. You couldn't agree with my take on this document scandal instead of dunking in a partisan way. I tried to explain why it was a problem of our whole political system.

Jason: I like your theory. I think you know you keep Biden. I think Biden is a grifter. I told you these guys are grifting. I just think your party is a little bit more, but you know, compare your craft.

Chamath: Are we going to play on Saturday after the Wild Card game? Are you guys interested in playing on Saturday as well? Because I have the hall pass. I can arrange a game on Saturday.

Jason: I'm not sure. I'll need to check with my boss.

Friedberg: Who's going to the sacks? Are you guys all going? Are you gonna come to play poker at that livestream thing for the day? In L.A., I doubt it.

Jason: He doesn't want to interact with humans.

Chamath: That doesn't play well in confirmation hearings.

Sacks: He destroyed me on camera, and every time he bluffed I folded. Every time he had the nuts I called. It was brutal. It was a classic Sacks shellacking.

Jason: That's what's going on here. No, no, no.

Friedberg: It has to do with the cabinet positions. He doesn't need to be seen recklessly gambling.

Friedberg: You could take any cabinet position, if you wanted. Which one would it be? State, Treasury, a lot of travel - you'd never stay at home, you'd always be on a plane.

Sacks: I don't think those cabinet positions are that important. I mean, they run these giant bureaucracies that are permanent - you can't fire anyone. So if you can't fire a person, do they really report to you?

Friedberg: The idea was to put a bunch of hardline CEO-type people in charge and have them blow up these things and make them more efficient. It didn't really work, did it?

Sacks: Yeah. Well, you know why a CEO is actually in charge? Like Elon Musk - he walks in and if he doesn't like what you're doing, he can just fire you. You can't fire anyone in government. How do you manage them when they don't have to listen to anything you say? That's our whole government right now - our cabinet heads are figureheads for these departments, these giant bureaucracies.

Chamath: Is that a no or is that a yes you still take, state, look?

Jason: At that. I think I have another ambassadorship first. What is the best ambassadorship? You can't you can't, London or France?

Sacks: Historically, you can tell which ambassadorship is the best one based on how much they charge for it. Yeah, I think London is the most expensive. I think that's 10 to 15 million.

Chamath: 10 to 15 million.

Jason: Ten to fifteen million—that's what Sacks's fourth least expensive home cost."

Friedberg: No, no, you have to spend that every year to run it. Jason, you only got for him. You could be the ambassador to Guinea or the ambassador to the U.K. You get the same budget.

Sacks: Actually, what's kind of funny is I know two people who served as ambassadors under Trump and it was really cheap to get those because no one wanted to be part of the Trump administration. They were on a fire sale after because of Trump, who wanted to be untainted.

Chamath: By the way, one of them, and you can just be about the name, was telling me it was the best thing because he ended up selling. They already got the all-time high to take the job. He was like, "I gotta get out of all of this stuff."

Sacks: No, but listen, let me tell you about the ambassadorships. It was a smart trade by those guys, because an ambassador is a lifetime title. So, no one remembers who was president when you were ambassador; no one cares.

Jason: So you're going for the ambassador?

Chamath: I think it's fair to say that I'm not interested in ceremonial things; I'm more interested in making an impact, and the problem with all these positions is that being a cabinet official is not much different than being an ambassador.

Chamath: So you're going to enlist in the Navy?

Jason: You know what has a bigger impact overall, being an ambassador for All in Pod or being the ambassador of Sweden? Actually, All in Pod is more impactful.

Friedberg: By the way, this is why I take issue with your statement about the term "mainstream media" because I think you have become more of the mainstream media than most of the folks that are independent media.

Jason: Trust me, it's independent.

Chamath: And stop genuflecting. It's independent. Who knows if this thing's gonna last another three episodes? I just like saying the word genuine.

Jason: Do you like genuflecting? That's the top word of 2023 for you so far?

Jason: Oh, is that someone doing an analysis with ChatGPT? Of the words used here? No, but Sacks brought that word up. It's a wonderful word; it's not used enough.

Jason: Alright everyone, we'll see you next time on the All In Podcast. Comments are turned back on, so have at it, you animals!

subject: Transcript of E110- 2023 Bestie Predictions!
In this episode of the All In Podcast, hosts Jason, Sacks, Friedberg and Chamath make predictions about what will be the biggest political winner, business winner, contrarian belief, best-performing asset, worst-performing asset, most anticipated trend and most anticipated media by 2023. They also discuss OpenAI reportedly being in talks to sell existing shares at a ~$29B valuation.

This transcription was generated by AWS Transcribe + GPT-3 and might be inaccurate. Full copyright belongs to the All In Podcast hosts.

Jason: Alright everyone, welcome to 2023! Everyone's well-rested and ready to take on the new year. How was your break, Sacks? I know you don't go on vacations to places with temperatures under 57 degrees anymore. Did you go somewhere warm? Wow, Freeburg, so many words and so little cold weather vacations!

Sacks: Yeah, that does happen at a certain point. I actually went to Florida, went to the Sunshine State of Florida.

Jason: Oh really? What's going on in Florida at the turn of the new year? I wonder what drew you down there too.

Jason: The great state of Florida

Sacks: We're just feeling free in the free state of Florida.

Chamath: Indeed!

Jason: We have our 2023 predictions now, so let's play some music and get to it. Last year, we did the biggest. Do you guys notice that every time we talk about something, the Wall Street Journal ends up writing a big think piece about it two months to a year later?

Chamath: So, three weeks ago, when we did our end-of-year wrap-up, I predicted that pot shops like Citadel would be my big winner for 2022. Today, an article in the Wall Street Journal landed that these guys have made almost $45 billion in revenues over the last two years, despite having only invested $56 billion. Last year, we talked about Sequoia and distributing public equities, and how it can be very fraught and difficult.

Chamath: Isn't that incredible? And

Jason: This is what usually happens. These guys are just crushing it; Citadel Securities did almost 7.5 billion in revenue. I mean, it's unbelievable how good these businesses are.

Jason: So let's get into this. It's typical if you think about journalists; they're trying to get into the conversations that occur at the bar after the event, the late-night conversations, the group chats. That's what this podcast is; it's the exposed back channel. Right? So if you listen to this podcast, you get the back channel of Silicon Valley politics, tech, science, etc. So let's do our predictions. In 2020, we set our...

Jason: The biggest political winner would be... Sacks and I both said Santa Jinping and Freeburg said Putin. Who do we think is our biggest political winner going forward? Who do you pick as Sacks' biggest political winner for 2023? Who will be your biggest political winner for 2023?

Sacks: Well, I went a little bit outside the box here because I think we're gonna have gridlock in Washington. So not expecting a ton to be coming out of Washington over the next year. My pick for biggest political winner is Asian American college applicants.

Sacks: There were two Supreme Court cases heard on Halloween of last year. One was a lawsuit against Harvard and the other was a lawsuit against UNC.

Sacks: The group Students for Fair Admissions argued that Harvard and UNC violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, as Asian American applicants were far less likely to be admitted than similarly qualified applicants from other groups. However, the federal courts in Boston and North Carolina rejected this argument. But the Supreme Court took up the cases, so they went out of their way to hear this, and I think they will rule to strike down these policies that really discriminate against Asian Americans. They seem to be the last group in America where it is still considered acceptable to discriminate against. I think the Supreme Court is going to find this unconstitutional.

Jason: You have brought this up multiple times on the podcast over the last two years.

Chamath: I have said that this was, unfortunately, affirmative action when it started. I think it had very good intentions and I still think there is a place for it. The problem is that these very liberal institutions decided to play judge, jury, and executioner on which minorities counted in affirmative action, and that's not what the intention was. The intention was to look at the establishment and their ability to get their progeny into these incredible schools, even when they didn't deserve to be there.

Chamath: And so I think this has always been an issue of classism disguised as racism. People in the upper classes of society have always had an advantage. There have been legacy admissions into Harvard, and the Kushner's famously had a $5 million dollar check from the father that got the son into the school. All of this has been well written about, and whether or not these things are right is not the point. I think the point is that there are folks in the emerging lower middle classes who have the potential to excel, and those kids should have a chance. You can't just decide who those kids are based on the color of their skin. In this case, some blacks and Hispanics were still allowed in, but Asian Americans were discriminated against, and that was a really stupid outcome.

Chamath: You cannot punish kids for wanting to work hard.

Chamath: I think that was the unfortunate outcome of what affirmative action has become by 2022, so it will be repealed.

Chamath: The reason it's going to be repealed is that, we have case law that very clearly states that any institution that accepts federal funds cannot have any form of discrimination. And this is how those who have tried to repeal affirmative action have taken up this lawsuit and hopefully the outcome will be a more meritocratic system that also tries to create a plurality of different people from different backgrounds.

Jason: Do you have any thoughts, Freeburg? What do you think will be your biggest political winner for 2023?

Friedberg: My biggest political prediction for 2023 is that Mohammed bin Salman will have a significant year for Saudi Arabia. Did you see the Reuters report a few weeks ago about the oil-yuan trade, where Saudi Arabia would sell oil to China and get paid in yuan? Saudi Arabia is in a unique position, as it has relationships with the United States, Russia, and China, and is at the center of the ongoing power struggle. I believe that Saudi Arabia will play a major role in determining the direction of global currency reserves.

Friedberg: Um, and the importance of these great nations and who sits atop whom can actually be dictated and significantly influenced by MBS this year by some of the deals and trades he might put in place and the kind of partnerships he might forge. I think as a result, you will see him kind of rise in terms of influence, not in terms of, you know, the world having accolades for this guy. But I think in terms of global influence, he will rocket ship to the top because of this jockeying he can now do between these three great nation states. Um, and defining currency reserves. The thing by the way about your selection is that Biden's explicit stance is unfortunately quite confrontational with MBS. And you saw that play out in Q4.

Chamath: We asked them to ease up on OPEC Plus and introduce supply cuts, and they did a nominal 100,000 barrel per day cut.

Chamath: I didn't do much. There was an article recently by Freeburg that pointed out that Saudi Arabia is really ramping up their efforts to extract oil and monetize their petrochemicals.

Chamath: So there's going to be a shortage of supply in the market, and we have less influence with Saudi Arabia than we ever have. It seems like we could change that if we wanted to, but Biden has taken a very confrontational approach which doesn't seem to make sense.

Friedberg: Remember, their stated intent is to diversify away from oil and into technology and other kinds of emerging growth economies. That's why they funded the Vision Fund, that's why MBS made that big visit to Silicon Valley a few years ago, and there is technology they want to import into Saudi Arabia and they want to have investors around the world. If the US is creating a barrier for them to import US tech into Saudi or for Saudi to invest in the US, but China and Russia have open arms and all they want is for Saudi to start trading in yuan, it's going to happen. I think that's where this guy has a real opportunity to shift the global economic dynamic.

Jason: Say what you will about Trump. He had open dialogue with North Korea and China. Russia would want to be able to talk to anyone, and he was able to do that. You also want to be able to say, 'Hey, listen, you can't dismember a journalist like Jamal Khashoggi and you need to be able to have both of those ideas in your head. You can't be rigid in foreign policy; you have to be fluid and keep people at the table talking. Who do you predict will be the big political winner of 2023? Everybody, go ahead.

Chamath: I really like spread trades where you go long something and short another. So I'd like to pair my biggest political winner with my biggest political loser for 2020.

Jason: Got it.

Chamath: And I am going to focus on the Republican nomination and I am going to go long Nikki Haley and I'm going to go short Ron de Santis. Now let me explain.

Friedberg: Sure.

Jason: You're not watching right now, is he ready to interject?

Chamath: So I think that all of this nonsense, for example, in the House Speaker race, all of the midterm results, what it really speaks to is that our people are getting exhausted with the lunatic fringes of both parties.

Chamath: That's point number one. So that favors moderates as an emergent class. Point number two is that if you look back through many cycles of Republican and Democratic nominations, it is often a disadvantage to be in the lead so early going into the Iowa caucuses in January.

Chamath: And so, if you put those two things together, the risk is that de Santis decays and things emerge. People attack him because he's the clear frontrunner. And the opportunity, just like it was for Trump in 2016, or for Clinton, or for George Bush, not Herbert Walker, but you know, is to emerge from the back. And so, if I think about a moderate person who can emerge from the back and consolidate the ranks, they should probably be from the South. They will have a lot of these 'purple compromises' that Sax mentioned in their policy program, and they will have a history of winning and a history of normalcy.

Chamath: And so I think that of all of the places where you could ever elect a woman as President of the United States, I think it will come from the Republicans before it comes from the Democrats. I mean, the Democrats are unfortunately increasingly judgmental, and I think it's very difficult for a woman to emerge there.

Chamath: I believe that Nikki Haley has a good chance. Therefore, I'm going to invest in Nikki Haley and not in Ron DeSantis.

Jason: Okay. I like to spread the trade for his prediction. Well done before I have to interject. Let me just do mine. And then you'll have to interject. I was looking at Biden and Trump and thinking which one of these is going to have the big win in 2023. So the two biggest players, I think, I have a prediction for Trump. I think he's going to lose by a margin of 50 points. Epic!

Jason: Everyone loves a weight loss story. I think he is going to be indicted by the court.

Chamath: Is he on?

Jason: No, I'm predicting an epic run and he's gonna drop 40 points. Then we're gonna have a showdown between Trump, get indicted by Garland, and the debates and the rigor morale with De Santis. I think he's gonna go after the delegates based on their weight and height. And then he's gonna win the nomination in 24 hours and we're gonna have Trump versus Biden. But this is a crazy prediction here. I think we're gonna have a settlement.

Jason: I think he's going to agree not to run and get a pardon. This is a crazy prediction, I know, but I think he'll lose the weight. He wins the name, gets indicted, and then gets the Richard Nixon pardon. A global pardon for all of his misdeeds. He's done.

Jason: So, what do you think of these two crazy predictions? Keep in mind.

Sacks: This is proof positive that everything you're saying about Trump is an act of projection. Are you talking about yourself or Trump?

Jason: My journey has been really good. Yes, both of those things. Have you done any of those?

Sacks: Uh...

Jason: Yeah, I think everyone should look into this if they have weight issues. It's a great new thing.

Chamath: Say it more broadly. I've been reading a lot about these GLP ones and I have to tell you, statins are a clear wonder drug. I think the 50-year longitudinal data on its value is pretty unimpeachable.

Chamath: Matt Foreman has even taken it prophylactically and it has shown incredible benefits for cell regeneration, longevity, and glucose management. Let's take a step back and look at the American diet. We're all prediabetic by definition. The way Americans and Western Europeans eat and our food supply is trash.

Chamath: So, Metformin makes a lot of sense, and its longitudinal data is incredible. But I have to tell you, the early data on these GLP ones is unbelievable; it's extraordinary. And I can tell you from firsthand experience, I would lose half a pound a week when I was dieting.

Chamath: But what I'm saying is, Jason, it's beyond that. And what I'm talking about is insulin response, cardiac health. So if this data tracks like this, then you just want to put everyone on these GOPs.

Jason: I just want to add a disclaimer here: do your own research and work with your doctors. Whether it's for Metformin or something else. But I had great results with it.

Jason: I recommend that if you're struggling with weight loss, like I did for many years, you should talk to your doctor about it. That's it; it's not a commercial for a hero's epic. But I do think these things are going to change the world for the better and they're getting better. It seems like people with diabetes are on them for life. So if your question is, 'Can I do this for a year to lose weight?' I think diabetics are on it for life. So when I made my decision, I was like, 'Well, all of these people with diabetes are going to be on it for years.' Work with your doctor, not random podcasts or venture capitalists, for your health advice.

Chamath: Unless it's non-toxic. Go get a renewable scan. Just make sure you've got it. So there you have it. These are our predictions. Do you want to respond to any of this? I want the stocks to react to my spread trading.

Sacks: So, look, I think if you're going on a betting site, you could place that bet pretty cheaply and it probably has some good upside. I don't criticize it as a bet, but I don't think it's actually going to happen. The reason is this: if you look at what's happening right now with the speaker's race, there are two very clear wings in the Republican Party: the establishment wing and the populist MAGA wing. The candidate, whoever it is in 24, needs to unite those two wings. I think this is the best argument for DeSantis, as he's widely accepted by both. Nikki Haley's problem is that she's very well regarded within the establishment wing of the Republican Party, but she has no meaningful support within the populist wing. So, I don't think she's capable of bringing the party together at this point in time; she would have to prove her populist bona fides, which she just doesn't have right now. That's why I think DeSantis has frontrunner risk; people will keep taking shots at him as long as he's the frontrunner, but he's capable of uniting the party in a way that it desperately needs right now.

Jason: Alright, let's go for our biggest losers. We said Biden and Trump in the extremes, the progression of the laugh again, the extreme. Sacks said Pelosi, who just wrapped up her tenure, and Friedberg said U.S. influence globally was the biggest political loser. Let's get our predictions for the biggest political loser of 2023. Freeburg, who do you think will be the biggest political loser of 2023? The world wants to know, Freeburg.

Friedberg: I would continue my US influence, but I am going to shift. Here's what I think is going to happen this year. My big prediction is based on the fact that I think the world has too much debt. I think the economic slowdown, coupled with rising interest rates globally and a dearth of asset capital inflows, means there's going to be a lot of issues with a number of debt markets around the world, particularly emerging sovereign debt. Just to give you guys a sense, global debt is about $235 trillion in public and private, which is somewhere between five and $15 trillion of global GDP. There's another trillion and a half of unfunded liabilities in the US and pensions and social security and all that sort of stuff. I think this is the year where a lot of the debt markets start to unravel, and the entity or political loser that steps in will be the biggest political loser of 2023.

Friedberg: I'm going to explain it in a second. Politically speaking, I think the International Monetary Fund is the entity that steps in to try and support these unwinding moments. No matter what the IMF does, they're going to look bad. It's like Jerome Powell this past year; no matter if he raised rates too late or too quickly, it had some adverse effect and impact, either inflationary or impacting growth.

Friedberg: And so I think the I.M.F. is going to get a lot of heat for either acting not fast enough or acting too aggressively and causing inflation as a bunch of these markets face credit risk this year. So my big bet is the I.M.F. is going to play a major role and we're going to be talking a lot about the I.M.F. later this year. I think as a result the I.M.F. will get a lot of heat and you'll end up seeing a lot of pressure and political, you know, just like we blame NATO, just like we blame Jerome Powell and the Fed, we'll end up blaming the I.M.F. for a bunch of problems that will arise. But the natural physics of what's going on is the world has too much debt and not enough growth to cover the debt. That's it. And the I.M.F. will be the political kind of, you know, hit that'll result from this point of view. But I think, yeah, it's complicated.

Jason: And who do you have as your biggest political loser prediction for 2023, Mr. David Sacks?

Sacks: Well, I mean, Kevin McCarthy may not survive the week, so let me go in a different direction.

Jason: I think California is my big political loser, and I would say in particular the city of San Francisco. They are both going to have gigantic budget shortfalls. You may remember that this was back in 2021 when we had that asset bubble; California had a surplus of 76 billion and then, in 2022, things changed. Now the state is looking at a $24 billion dollar deficit.

Sacks: Well, if we had taken, say, a third of that surplus from 2021 and put it in a rainy day fund, we wouldn't have to worry about this deficit. But that was never done. Newsom started handing that money out like candy to the electorate to boost his election, his re-election numbers and to get him past the recall, remember? So the state never got its fiscal outlook in order and now I think it's going to be even worse in 2023. And San Francisco, the city, has a very similar kind of problem where its tax base is heavily dependent on commercial real estate, which is really suffering. So, you know, the city of San Francisco and the state of California have moved their tax base to highly volatile capital gains and with a really lousy stock market, I don't know how these guys are going to meet their budgets. So there's going to be a lot of austerity and pain coming, that's for sure. And these people do not know how to manage a budget. They're incompetent. So you say California Freeburg says, "I.M.F." Who do you think the biggest political loser for 2023 will be? I'm in alignment with you. I think de Santis peaked a little too early and the "Forever Trumpers" in the chaos is going to be a little too much for him to handle. Okay, now we get into what everybody wants: business, business, business. Biggest business winner for 2023. Who do you have for your biggest business winner of 2023?

Chamath: I'm going to pick something out of my portfolio.

Chamath: I think I'm the only non-trivially large investor in both SpaceX and Relativity Space. SpaceX is clearly just crushing it on all cylinders and they're really the only game in town with respect to launch capability. If you Google it, you'll see that the Europeans have a hit-or-miss capability and launch. The Russians are completely unable to do launches now because of all the sanctions, and the private companies in New Zealand or the United States have also had fits and starts and are really incapable. Relativity, which is now the second most highly valued space business, is about to do a launch in the third week of January. The big difference between it and SpaceX, which is sort of why we did it - this is an early YC company, I did the Series A and kind of went along the whole way - is that they have 3D printed everything. And the reason why 3D printing is interesting is that you take a rocket that costs $5 billion if built by NASA and Elon was able to take that cost down to $200 to $500 million. If you 3D print everything, you can take that cost down to $5 to $50 million. That allows you to have this repeatability and manufacturability. Now, SpaceX also has a lot of 3D printed parts, but Relativity is entirely 3D printed. It has a launch in three weeks at Cape Canaveral, I think, and we have a $10 billion dollar order book that gets unlocked.

Chamath: So I don't know how to see beyond a lot of these market forecasts right now. So I'd rather pick a company; I'll pick something in my portfolio if the rocket doesn't blow up. There's a $10 billion dollar order book and this company is now on a trajectory to be as valued as the basics that Jason mentions in his book.

Chamath: And if it doesn't, it goes to zero.

Jason: Freeburg, go ahead and talk your book times two or three. Let's see if you can one-up.

Jason: Which one of your investments will be the biggest business winner of 2023, Freeburg?

Friedberg: I'm not an investor, but my bet is that open AI is going to be one of the most obvious choices this year. As you know, there are dozens of startups that are being created based on open AI demonstrations like Dolly and GPT-Chat. I think we're seeing this in both the enterprise and consumer markets. I think open AI will become a major player, and they could take many paths. AWS could provide the tooling and infrastructure for these startups to build applications for consumers and business users, or they could end up doing a massive deal with Microsoft. I think it's inevitable that they'll get a billion-dollar-plus investment this year. They could power AI-driven search and voice-driven search. They could build their own products and tools, and they're becoming great investors. They invested in Script, which is a product company we use here for our podcast, and it's an incredible product. Sam Altman is also a very smart and shrewd investor. For all these reasons, I think open AI could end up having an amazing year this year, and there are many paths they could take. We'll come out of this year and say they're one of the top tech companies in the Valley.

Jason: Okay, the advent of AI has certainly increased your ability to communicate with other humans.

Jason: So you're seeing a lot of big wins there. I know, um, how do I talk to a child about their college hopes and aspirations?

Chamath: No. How do I talk to a child about their day?

Chamath: Hello. Hello. Progeny of mine. How are you faring today in this complicated world?

Jason: Write me a script of talking to a 12 year old about their hopes and dreams. That's interesting using GPT for talking points on different topics.

Jason: Okay.

Sacks: Got any predictions?

Sacks: That would be great for these categories.

Jason: Sacks, as a person on the spectrum, yeah. How delightful is this chat? GPT, and you know, your treatment of your condition.

Sacks: That's great. Let me get to my answer here. So, my answer for the big business winner of the year is America's natural gas industry. And I have to admit, this is an aspect of the Ukraine war that I didn't fully appreciate until I read this New York Times article the other day about how natural gas prices in Europe have now fallen to the level they were at before the war. Everyone thought there would be this huge shortage and they wouldn't be able to heat their homes. Well, what happened? The answer is that Europe completely cut off their dependence on Russian gas and, in fact, the North Stream pipelines were blown up, so physically they separated. But then, on top of it, they basically started importing liquefied natural gas from the US. And here's the key paragraph in this article from the New York Times: Europe rapidly built terminals to receive liquefied gas, sweeping away many of the usual bureaucratic obstacles and environmental objections. So, in other words, what would normally have taken decades to get approvals was now put on a fast track and Europe is now completely dependent on American natural gas.

Sacks: And I think this is again, the thing, maybe I underestimated the cold, hard American interest in this war; to basically turn Europe into a vassal of America's natural gas industry. Previously, they were about to be dependent on Russia and North Stream was going to make that situation permanent. You know, somebody blew up North Stream now, they're dependent on American LNG and they're going to pay higher prices for that.

Sacks: But it's been a pretty impressive win for the American natural gas industry. And I think Biden has really done a 180 here because you remember when he first came into office, he canceled Keystone, he canceled drilling, he was very tough on the oil and gas industry. I think after he then delivered the hundreds of billions for the climate special interests in the Infrastructure and Climate Plan, he is now taking care of the oil and gas industry.

Jason: So, one hundred eighty votes for Biden?

Jason: Yeah, so what you're saying is Biden dynamically changed course based on inputs like a great leader would? Okay, well done.

Sacks: I don't know. Well, no, listen, I think Biden has done something politically smart here. There's no question about it. I am giving him credit. Does it mean that this war was worth it? No, I don't think we should be engaging in oil wars like we did in the Middle East. So I'm not justifying this war, but I am saying that there is a cold, hard American interest undergirding our position, which is it's about LNG. It's not just about moral platitudes.

Jason: Strong.

Chamath: Starting in 2023, there will be a lot of vassal and undergirding.

Jason: My biggest predictions are that I'm working backwards from here. I think the Doordash, Airbnb, Ubers, etc. are of the world who need entrepreneurs. They need workers, they need supply. They've always been supply constrained.

Jason: As unemployment becomes, let's call it what it is, 'sticky', you're going to see a lot more people participating in gig platforms or entrepreneurial platforms that enable them to make money. So I think they will be huge beneficiaries, especially if they continue to lay off employees like Doordash and Airbnb did to right-size their businesses. But my first one...

Jason: My #1 is laid-off tech workers.

Chamath: I see.

Jason: I think laid-off tech workers who get together in groups of two or three developers, product managers, people who actually build stuff and start companies together are going to become extremely successful and they're gonna make incredible lemonade from these lemons of these big tech layoffs. So I think the startup space is gonna, and these laid-off tech workers who choose to take control of their destiny and start companies are going to be the true big winners. If you do it, do it with two or three friends because you're gonna need developers, you're gonna need those talented people in the startups that have three founders get funded faster than the ones with one.

Jason: So those are my two winners. All right. Oh yeah. Last year, our biggest business winners were Shaman S&B, Sacks Rise of the Rest, Friedberg Stripe, and I said Disney Millennials and Gen Z. Let's move on to the biggest business loser for 2023. Friedberg, who do you think will be the biggest business loser this year, in fact?

Friedberg: Okay, so my biggest loser is the general category of capital-intensive Series B three-dimensional growth businesses in the startup landscape, private companies.

Friedberg: As you all know, there has been a significant shift in capital allocation.

Friedberg: A lot of the people who were writing large investments into growth rounds are now writing smaller investments for seed and A rounds. They don't want to write the $20 million or $5 million; no one wants to set the valuation for these growth businesses, especially if after this round, another large round of capital is needed and no one is sure if someone will be waiting on the other end.

Friedberg: As a result, we are seeing many of these businesses running into capital infusion walls, unable to pivot.

Friedberg: I think we'll see what we saw in the dot com bubble, where 99 and a half percent of these companies actually fail, and the half percent that emerge as the next $100 billion enterprises, like the Googles and Amazons of the world, will be the winners. But generally, there are hundreds of companies in hardware, synthetic biology, biotech, and high-growth enterprise software that require significant sales and investment expense. A lot of these businesses don't have the market for it right now and investors are retreating and being selective. So that's where I think there will be more pain. And, by the way, investing is as hot as a button.

Jason: Beep!

Friedberg: That's it, yeah, that's it.

Jason: Okay, who was the biggest business loser for 2023?

Sacks: Well, I completely agree with what Friedberg said, but my biggest concern for business in 23 is the consumer. I don't understand how the consumer won't eventually reach their limit in this economy. They have a huge amount of personal debt and credit card debt at an all-time high. I believe the average credit card rate reached 19.6% last week and is expected to increase even more.

Sacks: The mortgage rates are around 7% now, so buying a new home or selling your home and your stock portfolios is out of the question. Furthermore, layoffs are beginning to accumulate. Therefore, I don't understand how we can avoid a recession. You saw, you know, Kashkari saying that the Federal Reserve will keep raising rates to 5.4%, according to his prediction.

Sacks: You know, I don't understand how, if rates are at 5.5%, that doesn't eventually break the back of this economy and we go into recession.

Jason: You think, Sacks, that the economy is actually broken right now; we just don't have the data yet because the data lags 60 days in most people's minds. It does feel like the consumer and real estate have just broken at this very moment.

Sacks: It seems like the pain is very unequally distributed, right? But in the tech industry, we've been in a recession for a year. I mean, the growth stocks are down 80%. What Freeburg said is true; no one's going to fund these high-burning companies. There's an enormous amount of retooling that has to happen. Look, I think the recession is here; it's just very unequally distributed.

Jason: Exactly.

Jason: Yeah. Well, I mean, if you look at it, buy now, pay later. That's the category that's starting to break credit card debt. As you're saying, hitting, you know, big bad records in terms of how much we love spending. Also, people's savings are going down. So, the consumer's back has been broken. I think we're just going to feel it in the first and second quarter. Mammoth, who's your biggest business loser prediction for 2023 of the world? Wants to know.

Chamath: Let me just build on what Friedberg and Sack said for a second before I give you my pick. Sure.

Chamath: And this is the conversation you and I had when we just got on. What I was telling Jaeckel is, at the end of Q4, I did five deals; four were pro rata and one was a new deal. And they were all clean mark-ups. So, the four deals that other people put money into, I was looking at them and trying to figure out, okay, what differentiates these things in free birth to your point? These were super clean startups with very clean cap tables that had clear progress. And then conversely, I had seven converts shown to me for companies whose valuations were anywhere between three and, I would say, twelve billion.

Chamath: I didn't do any of them. Furthermore, nobody else did either.

Chamath: And the problem was that the real market clearing price was 80 to 90 percent lower.

Chamath: And so I was like, "What is going on here?" So, to your point, I don't even think it's just cash-intensive startups. I think it's like all growth companies are in a really bad place. I thought that this growth stuff would get sorted out in two to three months, and now I'm worried it's two to three years. I think it's toxic, toxic.

Friedberg: Here's the definition of what I think has happened: the cutoff is when the implied market valuation of the company, based on where public comps are trading, is less than the total capital preference in the company, i.e. the total preferred stock. There are so many companies now that have raised a $400 million valuation, but the company is actually worth $300 million now based on public market comps, so they're worth less than their preference stack. That's why I think all these converts are getting done, Chamath.

Friedberg: That's where the final decision is made on all these deals. Yes, indeed.

Chamath: Who does the conversion benefit? The conversion benefits the venture capitalists who want to maintain the perceived valuation that they had before.

Chamath: They do?

Friedberg: That they do.

Chamath: They do that to assuage the limited partners who gave the money, so the marks aren't as bad as they thought.

Chamath: But, as Jason said, the common shareholders really get the short end of the stick. Eventually, those convertible deals will be done, and those people will end up owning the company. The cap table will be completely reset and the employees will be wiped out.

Jason: And then you've got to basically take all the employees who were there previously who now hate the founder and give them all something.

Chamath: The people who do all the work and the people who do none of the work and just want to maintain this shell game get to basically live another day.

Jason: Basically, people are investing.

Jason: As you gave the example earlier, like if it's a $3 billion company, but it's actually worth $7.50. People instead of taking the valuation from three billion to seven fifty will say, 'Okay, buy one share at the $3 billion price and we'll give you three or four shares for free or for a penny warrants, they're called typically, or you know, just different ways to structure this.

Jason: And then all of a sudden nobody knows the actual denominator. They may own 10,000 shares, but they don't know how many shares are actually issued because the warrants are not on the cap table, they're in some side document, in a folder, in a lawyer or CFO's office.

Chamath: So let me tell you about my biggest business failure.

Jason: Yes, please.

Chamath: I think that the biggest potential business loser this year is Google Search, as measured by their profitability and engagement.

Chamath: I think it's easier for me to see where the usage comes from as opposed to picking apart AI or chat GPT in terms of where the usage goes to. And the reason is because I think a lot of people don't still fully understand how machine learning and AI work. But just as a quick primer, there are two big buckets of work. There's what's called learning, which is how you learn how to make predictions.

Chamath: Then there is what is known as inference, where you type something into the search box and you get the answer.

Chamath: The thing with learning, and what Chad GPT is showing, is that they have learned by crawling the entire web.

Chamath: There are five or six other organizations that are capable of crawling the entire web in terms of cost, compute, the quality of the transformers, and the quality of the AI. And so, I find it easier to predict the decay in the quality of Google search as being much better than everybody else than I do to predict who will win, because I think that with enough time and money, Oracle, Microsoft, Google, the Chinese internet companies, and Facebook can all compete. I think consumers will end up being confused and will end up being able to get high-quality search results from many places, as opposed to today.

Chamath: You know, you wouldn't only think that Google is the only game in town, quite honestly, for most people. So, I think Google could lose 10 or 15% of usage to all these other sites. And that may not make any of those sites that relevant, but it will have a material, measurable impact to Google and Google's fantastic prediction.

Jason: And I think, you know, chat, these other ones are going to have a very interesting marketing attack that they can do on Google: why search when you can get an answer right? Hey, we'll just give you the answer. You don't have to search. I had so many losers that I went through here. I'm just gonna run backwards to them. Number five, I thought founders who refused to downsize in 2022 could be big losers in 2023. Just got to tell you my thought process. This was the one I had a long number four, I thought VC funds founded in 2020. Then I thought crypto because Gary Gensler says it's all stock. Then I went with you number four, Google. My God, they got so many headwinds against them with the shot GPT. But I wound up on white collar workers with no hard skills. Twitter going down to, I think, you know, Ellen said a couple of 100 people is all you need to run Twitter and I think he said he has 2000 employees or something like that. He has shown everybody, you know, hey listen, these more can be done with less or these things are overstaffed in a massive way. I think white collar workers now the idea that you're gonna have four offers and you're gonna be able to play them off each other is over when we take the show. Sure, white collar workers, a.k.a. surplus elites, people who actually, you know, our mid managers who don't actually code or don't actually build a product or sell a product, don't actually do real work as I think many people would frame it in the managerial class or the CEO class. Man, they're gonna have a hard time and this week Andy Amazon Andy cut 18,000 white collar workers, not the blue collar, the white collar workers in Amazon, that was a big turning point and Benny off, you know, he's Ohana, he is Mahalo, he is Aloha, he does not like to lay people off. He considers Salesforce for family. He laid off 8,000.

Sacks: I predicted that,

Jason: Yeah. And I mean,

Sacks: that tweet about that. Well, I mean the reason is pretty simple right there; gross, it slowed down by two thirds in the most recent quarter. But they're still spending the same amount on sales and marketing. So when that happens, your CAC payback explodes, right? You go from three years payback to like ten years. So they have to cut costs in order to rationalize their economics.

Sacks: So, and now it cascades, right? Because all of Salesforce's vendors are going to get less money from Salesforce because they're tightening their belts. So then those companies have to cut and the cycle just keeps going and going.

Jason: Right. And everybody tightens their belts at the same time, freezing the economy, a.k.a. recession. Uh, and, and and possibly were. So that's a nice little quartet in 2022. Just so you know, I picked Crypto Freeburg, also picked Crypto Visa Mastercard, and Sacks said assets classes that benefit from government uh, dumps.

Jason: Right. Let's go for the biggest business deal of 2023. It's a prediction. What do we think could be the biggest business?

Chamath: Easy, easy. This one, Starlink will go public, SpaceX will cut and paste the cap table, and we will take it.

Jason: Yum.

Chamath: It'll be yummy and delicious, and my prediction is that the Starlink valuation will be at least half of SpaceX's current private marks.

Jason: 75 billion.

Chamath: Just 25 billion. It will be phenomenal. And I think the reason why is that, I think in order for Elon to have complete financial flexibility and do what he needs to do, and you know, he talked about this on our pod, about the difficulties and the dangers of margin loans and all of that stuff. He's gonna create breathing room for himself.

Jason: This is the simplest and most obvious way for him to do it. It'll give him a ton of more dry powder. So I think that this is an obvious outcome in 2020. I already have a million subscribers in there. Better than nothing, beta as they call it. I have two of them. I think this is a great, great idea.

Chamath: Uh, I was the first one to get it for the Global 7500. So, okay, I got it for yeah, yeah uh, in your house, in the same size.

Jason: Exactly. So there you go, there is a point. People are underestimating the tam, I think of this product.

Jason: The tam is not replacing existing broadband connections. It's providing second connections where connections didn't exist before.

Chamath: Best in class, the best in class broadband connection for a plane is called Ka-Band and it costs 500 grand a year and you can replace it for, you know, 1/10 of the cost. And Starlink on a plane is dramatically better bi-directionally.

Chamath: I believe Starlink will go public and I think it will be the best opportunity to open up the capital markets in 2023.

Jason: There's another way of saying it: people who own private jets and fly between 250 and 300 hours a year are paying $2,000 an hour for their internet service. That's crazy! Okay, got it.

Friedberg: Who do you think will have the biggest business deal in 2020?

Sacks: My prediction is that there will be a deal between Putin and G.

Sacks: And they met by satellite late last week to discuss ways to further help each other. In 2023, Putin characterized it as a "no limits" partnership. You may remember that the two of them inked a $75 billion gas deal in early February of last year. That was three weeks before Putin invaded Ukraine. I think now Russia is even more dependent on China. We've really driven Russia into China's arms.

Sacks: And I think there will be a big deal, not just on energy but on agricultural products, mineral products, and rare earth minerals that, you know, Thomas likes to talk about. I think there could be a trillion-dollar deal between Russia and China this year. If I were going to go out and make a prediction...

Jason: Okay, so there is your 2023 prediction of the biggest deal the "Legion of Dictators" is forming.

Jason: I do think it's like you know, the "Axis of Evil"; this is more like the "Legion of Dictators" like, "Hey, let's do business together.

Jason: Freeburg, do you have a prediction for the biggest business deal of 2023? This is really going out on a limb here.

Friedberg: Let me think quickly. The first one was similar to what Saxe said, but it's kind of echoing what I said earlier, which is the Petro yuan trade. I think that the Saudi-China trade, if this happens and oil is sold in yuan, it marks the beginning of, I think, the end of the assumption that the US Dollar is the global reserve and the risk-free currency in reserve for the world. So I think the Petro yuan trade, if you guys read the Reuters article covering this visit to Saudi Arabia last month in the second week of December, once this gets inked and signed, it's a real shift globally. I think the other one that I'm pointing out that I think is a bit of out of left field, maybe, and maybe I'm just going to look like a total idiot at the end of the year.

Jason: This is my wild card. So, my wild card is that I think Apple ends up buying something completely out of the ordinary. And here's why: Apple's core business is facing significant pressure with respect to their relationship and ties to China, as you may have seen last week. Foxconn announced that they are going further downstream in terms of their production model, and they are trying to diversify away from being the sole service provider to Apple.

Friedberg: As you know, Apple is under a lot of pressure to leave China politically, so they've started to look for other places to invest. They're also facing criticism for their App Store revenue, with some people calling it monopolistic and anti-trust getting involved. Additionally, Samsung recently announced a decline in consumer demand for electronics, which will likely affect Apple as well. When you put all of this together, it seems like Apple is being pressured to leave their low-cost manufacturing center, stop making money on the App Store, and diversify their business due to waning demand. They may end up doing something big, like buying a content company or an automotive company like Fiat Chrysler. I have no insight or intel on this, but it feels like they have to do something this year to keep their business going.

Jason: I think I love your wild card because of the MBS China trade and that relationship, sure. But this one is really good. It's hard to buy Disney's monopolistic issues, but buying a car company is pretty easy because that's a fragmented market. I love this prediction.

Sacks: I mean, now with Tesla's depressed stock price, Apple could make a run at Tesla. They could almost buy it with cash, let alone BMW or Volvo. One of those brands, they could buy easily. What a great prediction for me: the prediction is Amazon's three-legged stool will grow into a sturdy chair, with a fourth pillar for those folks who are not familiar with how Amazon has built their businesses. There are three pillars in their stool: e-commerce, obviously when you buy stuff; Prime memberships, which is kind of considered a separate revenue stream; and of course, AWS cloud computing. I think the fourth is going to be this continuation of following the health stream, not advertising because that's not a consumer-based product; that's just the way they make money. Health is going to be a big one for them. They obviously acquired PillPack, which was a small purchase. I think they're gonna buy Roman Health, they're gonna buy Peloton, they could buy Whoop, and they're gonna go all in on health. And you know that three-legged stool becomes a very sturdy chair.

My runner-up is TikTok is going to divest under duress. I think that it's going to have to go public and the Chinese are going to divest their interest in it and just take their chips because they're going to be faced with the existential threat during the political debates over the next two years. There will be unanimous support from Democrats and Republicans to get TikTok out of the US, so they divest.

Friedberg: I just tested that with you guys because we've talked about this a lot, that hey, we're going to ban TikTok. How many of your friends, kids, or your kids do you guys know spend hours a week on TikTok? It's a lot.

Jason: How do you get over the political mountain of trying to ban TikTok?

Friedberg: If you try to ban TikTok, whoever raises their hand and says, 'We should ban TikTok and get it done,' they're out of office. There will be so much pressure and backlash because people are hooked on and love that app and use it all the time. Taking it away from them will make people feel like young kids who don't have phones are missing out on everything that TikTok has on YouTube Shorts.

Chamath: So, I don't think TikTok is that important because there is no sticky network effect inside the app. There isn't usage that's dependent on people or a graph that you build; it's a lot of passively consumed content. You're getting pushed a lot of algorithmically defined content, which you can do on YouTube. So, I actually don't think it's that meaningfully important if TikTok goes away. I think the content creators will stay, but it's harder for them to build a business on YouTube Shorts. But if you look at the measure of the density of content inside TikTok, it exists almost one-to-one on YouTube.

Friedberg: That's interesting. Do you think it'll be okay if we cancel TikTok in the U.S.?

Jason: It will be disruptive, but people will just go to YouTube and Instagram. It's not that big of a deal.

Jason: In fact, a lot of my favorites,

Chamath: If there is a network effect inside there, then I think people would have a reason to complain to somebody, whether it's their representative or somebody else, to say, 'Hey, don't do this. This would have a deleterious impact on my quality of life or my quality of experience.' And you could make that clear claim on Instagram, Facebook, Google, or YouTube.

Chamath: But TikTok is much more fragile that way. And that's why they need to go public sooner and monetize this thing because I think it's actually very easy to deconstruct TikTok's value into these other places.

Jason: I can tell you my favorite TikTok is "Chef's Reactions" and I follow him now on Instagram because he posts there. He just copied one to the other.

Chamath: So "Chef's Reactions" is a great example of someone who got banned by TikTok and then diversified on their own.

Chamath: And now what he does is he publishes across multiple platforms. If you look at all the big creators, they all do that because it makes no sense to give the power to any one platform.

Jason: Why have a dependency?

Chamath: What do you mean by a dependency?

Jason: Alright, let's keep the trains moving. Most contrarian belief. This is the Peter Thiel Award. Your chess partner, Sacks, who's winning in 2022? How many chess games do you have going with Peter Thiel right now? And who's higher rated? You demolished me with your Queen's Gambit.

Jason: I played one game, I got killed in seven moves. I'm ranked at 809 100 right now. Sacks is at 1800; he just walloped me. Who's higher rated right now? Well, you know, I just don't even know what it was. I was like, what opening was this? You're like, Queen's Gambit? You're dead!

Sacks: Now, that was a very pleasant game for White.

Sacks: I'm going to go out on a limb and risk being wrong. My most contrarian belief is that the bromance between Biden and Zelensky will come to an end at some point in 2023. Everyone agrees that there will be a massive Ukrainian counter offensive in the spring. It could make limited gains and fight the Russians to a stalemate, or it could be successful and push the Russians back to the February 23rd lines and make a play for Crimea. In either case, I think Biden's and Zelensky's interests will start to diverge. If there's a stalemate, Biden will have to start going into election mode for 2024, and if the counter offensive is successful, the administration will hopefully tell Zelensky to stand down and make a deal. I think this could create a rift and no one is predicting that.

Jason: "I think this is great. This is kind of what I thought the plan all along was, which was to deplete Putin of resources, distract him, and then get the West off of his oil and try to do regime change, but do it by bleeding him. This would be proof positive of that strategy, which is 'bleeding to the end' and then sell Zelinsky out. I think that's actually, I know that, I know it's cynical, but I think that's what we're doing. I think Ukraine is a tool to deplete Putin and then maybe get to regime change. I'm as cynical as it gets with this. What's your most contrarian belief of 2023?

Chamath: "I will go with inflation, which people expect to fall off a cliff, doesn't fall off a cliff as fast or as meaningfully as people want. And so I will explain inflation as three different chapters and we've seen the first two chapters play out. So 2021, chapter one was all about energy inflation and you know we all talked about having almost $10 gas at the pump and what does it mean for everybody and it caused that initial spike in inflation. Then we had it come off and Sachs called us, he said you know we're gonna have this sort of double hump and 2022 was really the story of goods inflation, right? All these prices and all of these things went up because the input costs went up and we all had to bear the implications of that. But then that started to ebb. And now if you look at the tail end of 2022, what I found super interesting was the number of articles I saw about wage inflation, whether that was Biden using an 1800s era law to prevent a railroad strike, the number of states that increased minimum wage, the trend around unionization. So, in general, my thought is that the pendulum is swinging very markedly away from capital and towards labor, and as the labor participation rate stays low and continues to go down.

Chamath: And also, it's compounded by an unemployment rate that may go up. People are going to find it harder and harder to get people to do the work they need at their company unless they pay them more, and if that gets exaggerated then inflation will stay where it is, rather than falling off a cliff as people want.

Chamath: That's my big contrarian bet for this year; that we will see wage inflation that keeps inflation from going down as much as people want.

Jason: This is contrarian because everybody's saying, hey, it's over. The consumer's back has been broken, the credit card debt is high, and everybody's being laid off, yada yada yada. Therefore, goods and services, there'll be more supply than demand and the prices will lower. Very contrarian free break, you have a contrarian belief for 2023.

Friedberg: I think it follows my earlier points about the Saudi-China-Russia trade this year exiting 2023.

Friedberg: It may be the case that, you know, there has historically been this belief and it continues to be the belief that the U.S. Dollar will always be the de facto global reserve currency and the current mantra is that it is better than the rest; everyone else is worse off than the U.S. Western Europe is in trouble, Japan is in trouble, China is in trouble, everyone is in trouble. But if there is an economic coalition, a scaled economic coalition, that starts to shift the balance of power a little bit and the U.S. is meanwhile taking on an extraordinary debt load with the $1.7 trillion Omnibus Bill.

Friedberg: You know, there is this massive unfunded Social Security problem coming down the pipe and we're trying to manage multiple funded conflicts around the world. It could be that the U.S. Dollar coming out of 2023 starts to trade more like a risk asset and less like a risk-free asset. And so I think that that's my big contrarian bet is that maybe this year marks the beginning of the end of the U.S. Dollar as the kind of global de facto reserve currency.

Friedberg: Based on some of these big trades that I talked about happening. So that would be my big kind of contrarian bet.

Jason: Perfectly said. That's your contrarian bet. The access of the legion of dictators, MBS, etcetera, they become they form a new global currency?

Friedberg: Yeah.

Jason: In my terms, you're not calling it?

Friedberg: Yeah, I wouldn't say a legion of dictators and I wouldn't say form a new global currency, but I do think that the fact that large economic trading models start to be done in non-dollar denominated form weakens the kind of reserve status of the dollar to some degree, not fully. So maybe this year we start to see that shift.

Jason: Once again, I take the exact opposite of your contrarian belief. I believe American exceptionalism continues to soar as Russia, China, and Saudi Arabia, to a lesser extent, continue to self-sabotage themselves with insane wars like Putin has done or cutting off the heads of entrepreneurs in China figuratively. I'm saying here, I think you cannot have exceptionalism without entrepreneurs having freedom. And I think that means American exceptionalism based on freedom is going to continue and the legion of dictators I believe are going to stab each other in the back before they change the world or move the currency. You can't trust them, they'll snip at each other and/or self-sabotage.

Sacks: I think that America is really feeling it right now. I think that American power is immense. I think that the superiority of our weapons in Ukraine has been one of the big surprises of the war.

Jason: I don't see the world in the simplistic good guys versus bad guys frame that Jacob does. However, America is on turbo right now. And yes, it is true that the BRICS would love to get off of the dollar because we are now using the dollar and the financial system as a swift geopolitical tool and weapon, and they would very much like to be off of our dependence on our currency. But I don't think they're anywhere close to being able to do that yet. Like I said, America is on turbo right now. Now, one thing I want to mention: a White House correspondent named Jennifer Jacobs just reported that the US has agreed to send Bradley armored vehicles, basically our best tanks, to Ukraine.

Sacks: Previously, US officials had balked at sending armored vehicles, saying heavier weapons would be too difficult for Ukraine to operate and maintain. However, allies are now moving to provide such weapons, so we are continuing to provide the Ukrainians with more and more sophisticated weapons and more and more support. As I said, this is leading up to a huge Ukrainian counteroffensive in the spring, and I really don't know what will happen at that point. I do think the Russians will escalate; they can't afford to lose this war. They view it as existential. As I said, I hope cooler heads will prevail, and if the Ukrainians are successful at breaking through, I hope the administration will shut this down before they try to retake Crimea. We've discussed this before; I think the Russians, confronted with a choice between a total defeat that includes losing Crimea and their naval base at Sevastopol, and seeing the Ukrainian flag flying over it, will choose the former.

Sacks: They're based in Sevastopol. If it's a choice between that or potentially using a tactical nuclear weapon, perhaps at the mouth of the Crimean Peninsula as a firewall, I think they could choose the new option. So it's a very dangerous situation and, as you know, very dynamic. There are a lot of possibilities.

Jason: Alright, let's move on to the best performing asset of 2023. I'm going with seed stage investing again. I don't think people want to get into these toxic cap tables at the late stage, as pointed out. So I'm going with seed stage; you know, enough to get to Series A for those brave enough to place bets and the founders brave enough to start companies. I believe it's the best performing asset class of 2023.

Jason: I think that there is still a lot of uncertainty in the world and in the markets, and so I am generally concerned that there is a lot of volatility.

Chamath: And so I picked something that's pretty conservative, but I would have a combination of cash and the front end of the yield curve. So T-bills all the way up to two-year bonds. So you can generate 4.5%, probably by the end of this year, 5% pretty safely, owning this stuff while you wait for things to become more certain. And the way that I think about it is that I would rather miss the first 10 or 15% of a rally once we're really done with this stuff, then try to overcorrect and try to pick a bottom, just because I think that you could lose a lot of money. So I think the goal for this year is to stay resilient and in the game, and so owning, having a bunch of cash on the sidelines ready to pound it in, meanwhile a portion of it collecting 5% is not such a bad thing while you wait for the bottom.

Jason: Fantastic.

Sacks: My answer was actually very, very similar, which is if Kashkari's right that rates are going to 5.4% in Q1, why wouldn't you just put all your money in short-term T-bills and earn 5.5% risk-free, like set it and forget it?

Sacks: That's why capital is flowing heavily from stocks into bonds right now, especially if we're heading into a recession, which is typically deflationary.

Jason: What do you have, Friedberg?

Jason: Forming an asset class for 2023?

Friedberg: Of the things. So, I think it's inevitable that we continue to have significant infrastructure spending from both a stimulus and security point of view. So, you know, we want to continue to stimulate the economy and support growth. We want to continue to create jobs and support this transition. And if the recession predictions come true and the job market does loosen, it's very tight right now.

Friedberg: There will be even more of an impetus to continue investing in infrastructure. However, there are also big economic transitions happening right now with pharmaceuticals, semiconductors, and energy. We have discussed how there is a security and redundancy problem with these.

Friedberg: And so, you know, there are a couple of ways to play this infrastructure spending thesis in each of those areas. I've highlighted four of them. One is in semiconductor capital equipment, like the ten core Applied Materials businesses that provide and sell the equipment into the fabs and the organizations that build semiconductor manufacturing facilities. The second is oil and gas services, similar to what Saxe said earlier; Schlumberger, Baker Hughes, that class of businesses I think will benefit in this environment, independent of economic conditions, as these are big multi-year spending projects.

Jason: The third is in the equipment to support them, such as Deere and Caterpillar. And then the fourth I think is an important one. I'll talk about this in a minute with respect to my biggest anticipated thing for next year, which is in pharmaceutical infrastructure. So, Thermo Fisher and there are some other companies like them because there's a lot of build-out happening to support these big transitions happening in the modalities that are being used in pharmaceutical drugs and diagnostics.

Jason: And then I think that there are also a couple of businesses that are diversified, like Danaher, Honeywell, and Thermo Fisher, which is a good example, that play across multiple of these opportunities. So those are all great businesses to own and you don't need to worry about, you know, getting a 5% or 5.5% return based on the equity price this year. These are long-term businesses that are building real value, growing their top line, and compounding value from within. They're also acquiring a lot of smaller businesses very cheaply. I'd say it's an important trend I've seen across these companies, Danaher, Honeywell, and Thermo Fisher, they buy small companies, they pay very little, and they immediately get a massive return on invested capital, like in the high teens. So why get 5% on T-bills when you can get high teens with the management teams running these incredible platforms? That's where I'm most excited for this year.

Jason: Okay, now let's move on. It was

Friedberg: like that was like a mad, that was like my mad money segment. I've never done the mad money segment before but there you guys got it.

Jason: Worst Performing asset. I went with energy because not that I don't think it's important, but it just feels like everybody rushed into it in 2022. So it feels like it's overheated and if we are in a recession, people might lower consumption in terms of energy and be looking for cheaper alternatives so it could be overheated. So I went with energy as the worst performing asset. You got one.

Jason: I think that if we've learned anything from the last three years, it's that you have to separate a company's valuation in the stock market from its value in society. For example, Zoom's valuation has dropped, but its value in society has probably continued to increase. Markets don't give you credit for the value in society; they'll give you credit when they think you're about to over-earn, but then they'll take it all back when they think you're going to under-earn. So, in that lens, I think tech will have a tough year.

Chamath: I think energy will have a really bad year, and probably the biggest asset class that is going to get pressured is going to be junk debt. The reason is a bunch of these variable rate loans when rates are at five and 6% that all of a sudden are like 11 12 13 14% coupons. A bunch of companies will have trouble meeting their debt obligations and will have to restructure the debt or file for bankruptcy. So energy is a subcategory of what you just said. I think office towers in San Francisco are some serious toxic debt, with 27% vacancy rates and growing as Lisa's role. I think that a lot of these buildings, or virtually all of the San Francisco downtown, is going to be owned by the bank soon because no one wants to be in those skyscraper buildings south of Market, you know, mired in homelessness.

Sacks: So, yes, I believe that the banks will own a lot of this building. There could be some major fire sales. Remember, this was the hottest commercial real estate market in the country a few years ago, and now it's the worst.

Jason: Well, look what happened.

Chamath: Look what happened to be read. What do you think about that crazy thing that happened with the Blackstone Read? I mean, that's nuts. You know what happened? Blackstone has a product called, it's like a $70 billion exchange-traded fund, effectively.

Chamath: And what it is is the ability for individual investors to access Blackstone's commercial real estate portfolio. They had such a massive amount of redemptions that they had to close redemptions at the end of Q4 and they were worried that the redemptions would continue to go up. These are individual investors who basically saw the writing on the wall, as David said, and wanted their money out. So, they went to the University of California pension system and they essentially got a huge infusion of capital, I think it was about $4 billion, where they guaranteed 11.5% interest to these guys for the $4 billion and they also posted a billion dollars of their own equity in the actual REIT to backstop it. So, what does it show you? I think what Sacks is saying is really right. It may not just be in San Francisco, but with all of these people either getting laid off or now working remotely, we may finally start to see the beginning of the reckoning in commercial real estate, which has been an unbelievably performant asset class up until right about now. And, on top of that, you have to factor in these much higher rates. So, these building owners, if they financed it, which they invariably have always done, they have huge variable rate payments that are due on these buildings. The rent rolls are lower, even people like Twitter are refusing to pay the rent, so you have to take them to court, which elongates when they have to pay. And so, you could miss a bunch of rent payments and all of a sudden the banks could just go crazy and take ownership of these things.

Jason: Okay, do you have a worst performing asset class for your 2023 prediction?

Jason: Sultan of Science, Queen of David Friedberg?

Friedberg: It's really simple. I've mentioned it before: it's consumer credit. We assume that rising rates and inflation would taper down consumer demand, meaning consumers buying goods and stuff, and that certainly hasn't happened. I'm in Vegas right now; I was in the car yesterday and the driver grew up in Vegas. He's like, 'I've lived my whole life in Vegas. I've never seen a December like we just had; it was packed the entire month. Normally in Vegas, it's dead up until Christmas and the New Year when people come into town, but it's normally like, I've never seen such a busy month.' And I think we see this in the numbers; consumers are still spending. Like it's 2021, they're still spending. Interest rates are zero, as we talked about, and consumer credit is skyrocketing while rates are skyrocketing. Um, and so I think we're going to run into a real wall with respect to consumer credit sometime this year. And you're gonna see, as you guys know, this is such a complicated interwoven market of assets that the way that this can be traded, there's a lot of different ways to trade it, but I think it's going to be in general, consumers are not gonna be able to meet their debt obligations and it's going to be sick.

Jason: Could be mortgages, credit card debt defaults are coming?

Friedberg: Yes, exactly.

Friedberg: Yeah, the markets have priced in a lot of stuff, like Affirm and the buy-now-pay-later companies, but credit card companies, mortgages - there's a lot of assets you can start to pick apart. Where do you think this will travel first? What gets hit hardest? What's underpriced and overpriced? Probably a lot of good pair trading to do, just kind of looking at which of these are more likely or less likely to be sensitive to this dynamic. But there's going to be a pretty ugly scene - consumers have way too much debt relative to their earnings right now, and it's pretty nasty.

Jason: And they don't have much confidence that they'll always have a job or some way to pay their four easy payments.

Friedberg: It's hard. Muscle memory is serious. You know, coming out of 2021, it wasn't just stimulus checks; it was the low interest rate and easy credit availability everywhere. It's easy to jump into getting new stuff and cool stuff every week or every month, and you don't want to give it up just yet. So it's hard to step back from spending when you have a new type of lifestyle, and I think that's what's going on.

Jason: I think this is an amazing observation.

Friedberg: There's a great TikTok of this guy who runs car dealerships and he sent it out. It's incredible how much money people are spending on their monthly car payments and people buy these cars that are well beyond what should be a reasonable budget. If you were to go to Suze Orman, she would tell you not to buy that expensive car and that the stretching is going to snap this year. Yeah.

Jason: Absolutely. Which brings us to the most anticipated trend of 2023 related to yours. I went with austerity.

Jason: I have a friend who often flies private and I was talking to him about his Christmas vacation. This friend of mine opted to drive instead of flying private to his vacation. He had to pick up his kids, so he had to go back and forth. He was driving his car for three hours. That wasn't ideal. I didn't want to tell him it was great. You would normally find private flights to Lake Tahoe and he's like, no, I can't go out skiing on Friday. I gotta pick up my kids and then I'm driving. I said, wait a second. How are you doing that? He's like, I'm driving a car. I said, what? Who's driving the car? He said I'm driving the car. And that's why I say austerity is my anticipated trying to 2023.

Chamath: I agree with you. I actually think this is a really great opportunity to take advantage of.

Chamath: So much waste. I hadn't really looked at my household budget for probably two or three years and hadn't even bothered. And then, when I looked at it, I was like, "Wow, this is really inflated to a level that I didn't expect, but it makes a lot of sense to live in a more frugal and austere way.

Chamath: I don't know. Yeah?

Jason: Well, I mean, look at tonight's menu. You went with duck. I guess the Olive fed Wagyu. Everything's off the menu now, no black truffles. We're having duck. We're down to poultry. Next week we're gonna have pasta. It's okay.

Jason: Austerity measures for everybody, they call it frugal for a reason, right?

Jason: Oh God, Sacks. Do you buy into austerity? Gemma and I are austerity belt-tightening as our trend. What's your trend?

Sacks: I think it's a pretty good trend.

Jason: The trend that I am suggesting will be to your great disappointment, Jaeckel, which is that Trump's influence in the GOP continues to wane. You're seeing it in real time right now.

Sacks: The headline is that Trump's endorsement proves to be worthless for Kevin McCarthy and his bid for Speaker, even among the MAGA faithful like Matt Gates and Lauren Bow Bert. They are ignoring Trump's pleas to get behind Kevin, and in fact, they are not just defying him but making fun of him. Matt Gates had a riposte to Trump saying 'sad!' and Bow Bert was saying that Trump needed to get behind her movement.

Sacks: So we now have a level of open defiance to Trump and the GOP's endorsements are not what they once were. And even if somehow Kevin McCarthy manages to pull us through, I think all that means is that Trump gets blamed for every swampy, Republican compromise that McCarthy has to make to keep the government running over the next two years. So it's a lose-lose situation.

Friedberg: Does that mean that populism is on the decline? Do you think that, because it was the electorate that got him elected in the first place, he was not very popular with politicians? Was he kind of an outcast when he got elected the first time and is that still the case now? But he still got elected because the population loved him. Is that going to happen again? Does that mean that the populism is waning or the interest of the voters is waning in him, or is it just the political parties' alignment?

Chamath: It only won by a few thousand votes. She didn't exactly crush it in Colorado.

Sacks: I think a lot of this has to do with Trump's personal standing after the midterms, the candidates that he personally picked were all in tough races and they all basically lost. It was about the distraction he caused by making the 2020 election such a big deal, constantly looking backwards. So, I think the Republican Party doesn't like the antics; it's not about the policies. I don't think it's 100% about the positions per se, it's about Trump's electability and his ability to get things done.

Sacks: So, to answer your question, I think the future of the GOP will incorporate this populism, but it will find a better integration with the establishment wing of the Republican Party. Future candidates will have to satisfy both wings of the party.

Jason: Sacks, was it the straw that broke the camel's back for Republicans and Trump in that relationship? Was it January 6 and the election denial?

Jason: Just like, come on, those are the two things?

Sacks: This constant focusing on the 2020 election first cost them the Georgia runoff seat with Purdue against Warnock. Perdue won on election night, but didn't clear 50%, so it had to go to the runoff. This happened the day before January 6. This was the first race where Trump's antics cost them. Then you had this midterm election, where all the candidates who had to appease Trump by talking about the last election instead of looking to the future were punished by the voters. I think Republicans want to win; they're tired of losing, it's that simple.

Jason: Yeah. The job of a politician is to win Freeburg. You have an anticipated trend of 2023?

Friedberg: I am excited about and want to share the point of view that I think I'm selling; gene therapies are becoming more mainstream. These are pharmaceutical modalities where we use gene editing systems to change or add genetic material to cells in the body to resolve genetic diseases, change protein deficiencies, or introduce new proteins. Then there are cell therapies, where we engineer cells in the body to attack and destroy cancer cells. There are currently 27 FDA-approved gene therapies on the market, with over 1000 in clinical trials, many of which are already showing extraordinary efficacy and benefit. These therapies cost upwards of a million dollars. So, I think there's a massive infrastructure investment conversation to be had, because of the number of diseases, conditions, and people that these therapies can treat. I think there's a massive infrastructure investment opportunity coming forward this year, but also seeing these come to market, come out of clinical trials, and get FDA-approved. We have to ramp up and build up the infrastructure needed, because it's not traditional when you make a drug in a factory and send it to people and they get it injected; these are much more complex and require a much more complicated delivery mechanism. Currently, these systems take days or weeks and cost a million dollars plus per treatment. So, I think that the cell and gene therapy opportunity, the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference starts this week; it's the biggest biotech and healthcare conference in the world, starting in San Francisco on Monday.

Friedberg: This is one of the most significant areas of interest, and one that everyone is investing in. As these products come to market, we discussed this last week, such as genetic diseases and types of cancer that can be addressed, I'm really looking forward to seeing more of these products come to market and witnessing the entire infrastructure and delivery system change.

Jason: Sorry for interrupting, I was just trying to keep the conversation moving. Gene editing is a very good choice. Alright. Let's end with something a bit more fun: the most anticipated media for 2023. We like to talk about media here. Sometimes we talk about White Lotus season two, it was an amazing season. What are you looking forward to next year? I'm really looking forward to Christopher Nolan's film about the Manhattan Project, Oppenheimer. That should be extraordinary.

Jason: I loved Dunkirk as well. I love everything he does and this is him becoming like our history uncle. I'm here for it. I'm here for Nolan becoming our history uncle instead of Batman.

Chamath: What was the movie after Inception? That was really confusing. The one with Denzel Washington's son and John Washington.

Jason: Yes. I tried to finish it, but I couldn't do it twice.

Chamath: I have to go.

Jason: He took a third shot at that one. Was it

Friedberg: Oh yeah, it was, it was his worst film.

Jason: It was quite difficult.

Friedberg: It was called "Tenant Tenant".

Jason: Tenant was about time and it was impossible to follow. Did you guys see his original film? It was incredible. Memento was fantastic.

Friedberg: It was great. It was mind-bending enough, though, that you're like, "Oh my God, it's incredible." But then I think they took it too far. I tried to watch it three times, and I'm usually pretty good with these types of films and I love him. But oh my God, it was impossible to follow. He took it too far.

Jason: Okay, so hopefully he goes back to his roots in terms of TV series. I'm looking forward to Secession coming back, Ashoka who is, uh, Anakin Skywalker Darth Vader's padawan, Ted Lasso season three coming up. Those are, for me, incredible. And then on the book front, man, the Michael Lewis book about SPF is going to be next level. I cannot wait for that. You're a media junkie. What do you have on your list of things you're looking forward to, or should I say, what is Tucker's writers putting down for?

Sacks: Well, Jake, I thought you were gonna pick Cocaine Bear for movie.

Jason: I can't wait to see the cocaine bear.

Sacks: The cocaine bear looks really amazing.

Jason: It's in the woods?

Sacks: Yes, and I guess people who are trafficking in cocaine have dropped some or crashed, and the bear eats the cocaine and then goes on a rampage. It's kind of like a genre film, like in the 'Crocodile Dundee' way. By the way, I'm listening to Quentin Tarantino's book of criticism.

Jason: Get the audiobook, you'll like it, Sacks. He talks about all the films from the 70s. Very good shout out to Quentin. What do you have on your shortlist?

Jason: History, Uncle Sacks?

Sacks: Me?

Jason: Yeah.

Sacks: Just gave you one.

Jason: But...

Sacks: Oppenheimer was on my list, and I think Marvel is doing a good job developing a new villain to rival Thanos with this King character. I don't know what phase they're on now, but Loki season two and then the new Ant-Man movie...

Jason: You...

Sacks: Know, I thought after Thanos you wouldn't really be able to top that, but they've come up with a really good concept, I think, for the next 20 Marvel movies.

Jason: And then it will eventually become Galactus. You...

Chamath: Guys, you have completely missed the most obvious slam. You have missed Shade's new album. Go...

Chamath: Dune Part Two.

Jason: Oh, I haven't watched the first one yet.

Jason: Do you know what happened?

Sacks: What was it?

Jason: My wife wants to watch it.

Chamath: It's so stylistically beautiful. It's a bit boring, there's not much going on, but it's so well shot.

Chamath: It's visually just stunning. I mean, if you need to watch it on a big screen with big speakers, Part Two comes out in November this year.

Jason: Friedberg, tell us what documentary on veganism you recommend and which one are you anticipating for 2023?

Friedberg: I am excited about the generative AI-based media that I think is going to start to really take off this year. We could see, for example, the first AI-written symphony, the first kind of AI-written published novel. How interesting would that be, like a full novel published by AI? And maybe even more short films based on AI-driven scripts, and what I'm really excited about is these AI-based interactive video games or kind of experiences where you, the user, get to create and live in your own world through some sort of video game type modality. So, I think AI-driven media is really exciting.

Jason: All right, there you have it folks. Speaking of pop culture chaos, I guess Prince Harry has a book coming out, that's called 'Spare'. Like, when you're playing, uh, but you know, like in the English monarchy, there's the heir and the spare, so he's calling himself. But to me, that's like a weird self-description. Yeah, like that's how you see yourself as being self-deprecating. He didn't pick that, they paid him so much money. I heard they have to sell 1.7 million books to break even. But you know what it reminds me of is when Leonard Nimoy wrote a book, I think he wrote a book called 'I Am Spock' and then he wrote a book called 'I Am Not Spock'.

Jason: Nice. He could never get comfortable with the fact that he was just... yeah, everything they taught you, everything I learned at Harvard Business School and everything they don't teach at Harvard Business School. You can do both books. Alright, listen, this has been great breaking news as we're talking here chat. GPT Open AI doing a tender offer at 29 billion with revenue, losing three billion a day. Oh my God, who is buying a 29 billion?

Sacks: Its founders fund reportedly, according to the Journal's Founders Fund, Thrive Capital. So, Founders Fund does not generally do super overpriced deals.

Friedberg: Yes, indeed.

Jason: I mean, come on.

Friedberg: Dude, are you kidding me? That could be a $100 billion dollar company. That's right. But I think...

Jason: It's a 10x from here.

Jason: I would, I wouldn't.

Friedberg: Totally could be. By the way, do you guys remember that the origin of Open AI? I don't know what the current situation is, but it was a nonprofit where they said investors put money in. But the investors' maximum return was 100x on the dollar invested. So it's a nonprofit.

Friedberg: No, no.

Chamath: That happened afterwards. It's when they converted the original model.

Jason: Was the original model a pure nonprofit where there was no cap because there was no concept of equity?

Chamath: When they flipped, they capped everybody to 100x on the return. So the original money.

Friedberg: But,

Chamath: you know the original money, which was like Elon's money,

Jason: Who else put in money?

Chamath: Read? Yeah. All that money came in as pure nonprofit. So I don't know how it converted, but that's when they didn't convert. Did those people who funded it originally get any shares in the for-profit?

Chamath: We could find out probably they did. I mean it would make sense that they did.

Jason: I mean this is a tender offer.

Friedberg: For 1% of the 27 billion.

Jason: Again,

Chamath: What I want to impress upon you is that there is an enormous amount of work they do, and their biggest gap to monetizing this will be finding unique content that nobody else has access to. That's why I think it's important to understand that if you have enough compute, all of these unsupervised learning models will converge to the same answer.

Chamath: So you're just getting there first. In order to be really defensible, you have to get there in a unique way. Either you're going to hand-tune it or you're going to have inputs that are different.

Chamath: So I don't know the answer. That's why they have to answer that question in their fundraising, and I'm sure they did because these are smart investors. But that's the big idea that you have to overcome. And again, you have to think, "Is Google sitting on their hands?

Jason: No competitor?

Sacks: 29 billion. What fundamentals is that based on? Why not five billion? Why not three billion? Why not 10 billion? What makes a double valuation? That's what it is. It's all based on momentum.

Jason: Did this have anything to do with reality? I mean, this would imply that the public companies of Google are trading at 25 to 30 times their beta. So this would imply a billion dollars in revenue, two to three million dollars in profit per day. They're reportedly losing three million dollars a day on computers, but making three million dollars a day on what product?

Jason: I don't know.

Friedberg: That's not the issue. I mean, my point was if these guys open up a set of tools that support all these applications and services to emerge on top of what they've built and they're getting revenue, getting payments out of that, it's going to very quickly turn into a real problem.

Jason: Here's the problem. This is why that can't happen. They don't have the rights to the data they built the training set on and the second they commercialize it, the second anybody pays them for whatever they base this on, they're going to get sued into oblivion. I predict it.

Friedberg: Let's talk about that in the next show because I think that's how AI works and we should probably bring someone like SAM on to discuss it.

Friedberg: But the way that AI works on training data and now people are making claims that the training data is copyrighted, so the model output is protected by that copyright, is something I think worthy of a good conversation.

Chamath: What's interesting is, you know,

Friedberg: the early version

Chamath: of the internet was very simple. It had a file called robots.txt which would allow a website to be open to a crawl or not. That's what allowed Google to spider your pages. So we have to replace this concept with something else.

Jason: Well, Chamath, you could make a claim that this is no different than a spider crawling a web page, except that in the search case it was much cleaner; we're just going to index your page and redirect people to you.

Chamath: Here is where we're actually going to create a derivative work because of you. I do think that this is going to be a very interesting legal threshold that needs to be figured out.

Jason: Well, here it is. You're nailing it exactly. It's a derivative work and they did not have permission to use it, which impedes upon the original author's ability to do commerce in the world, whether it be a photo, a song, or a piece of code. You are interfering with their ability to monetize their content, and the percentage you're using is 100%.

Jason: So when you get to fair use, non-commercial use is very protected, parodies are protected, and education is protected. But when you use the entirety of the work, which they're doing, and you impede upon the person's ability to make a profit and you confuse the public, this is the test that they will fail.

Chamath: This is why I think that most people don't understand what AI is; they don't even understand the difference between training and inference. So hopefully, there will be more understanding of this. But if you use the same dataset, you will eventually converge to the same outputs, without hand-tuning weights, which has its own issues, and without any asymmetrically different data that you have that nobody else has.

Jason: Absolutely yes. So if you are Apple and you have the watch data, or Google and you have the search data, or you're a weather company and you have the weather data, and it's proprietary of course, there's a very easy solution to this. Number one, citations: when the algorithm gives you an answer, it should say what were the top percentage sources of this information? How did the AI people look if you look inside of a transformer? The problem is, okay, that you're going to have trillions of ranks, trillions of weights, and trillions of so how are you going to decide how to draw a line under a threshold? This was actually a useful input, and this was not.

Chamath: So again, I just think that it's hard, very few people understand this. Like the best person to bring in to talk about this would be Andre Carpathian. And I think because Andre was there at Tesla, he can explain this in a very dispassionate way to people. I think we should ask him to come on.

Jason: I mean, I can ask him.

Jason: I mean, this is brand new. These are the laws. You're an attorney, so you understand fair use copyright and all of this stuff.

Jason: Correct me if I'm wrong here, but Sacks doesn't anticipate this. Look, Sacks, this is a highly specialized area, and I don't want to pretend like I understand the law in this area. I think it would be best to talk to a specialist.

Jason: Okay, so let's have this conversation because I think this is a great topic for us to talk about.

Chamath: This is probably why they started as open source in the first place, because it was like a slam dunk thing to make this a non-profit and open source. Everything. Maybe in part because of these issues. But if you just let the code run free, you probably don't have to even deal with these issues. Right. Well, remember their claim? The claim was this is too dangerous for people to not see the code. Then Sam flipped on that and he said it's too dangerous for people to see the code. And it started out as a nonprofit, where the idea was the way to keep this safe is for everybody to see the code.

Jason: But they didn't make any money. They went private and flipped the decision, so keep that in mind as well.

Chamath: He's a very, very, very savvy business person. He's clever.

Jason: And you know,

Chamath: Paul Graham, when Paul Graham picked Sam to run YC. Paul Graham said that this was the most impressive person he had met since Steve Jobs.

Jason: Yeah, I remember that. He said something similar about Garry Tan starting at YC this week. Sam Altman, a friend of ours, is always welcome to join our poker game.

Jason: Yes, we did. We had a tough situation there where you interfered in the hand if you remember. All right, listen,

Chamath: this has been what?

Jason: There was a Sam and I were in a hand of poker. He raised and I had two pair and I'm trying to figure out does he have a set or is he bluffing me? I think he's got top pair. And you're like, oh, look at this. And you started commenting on the hand and I hadn't made the call yet.

Chamath: I'm like, what?

Jason: Hold on, let's let's stop talking here because I'm trying to focus on playing. And I'm like, OK, Sam would get a delight out of bluffing me off a hand. He's a risk taker. He knows I'm conservative. He knows he's a risk taker. I'm gonna call here with my two pair. I'm like, does he have a set and there was also a straight on the board. I'm like, funk it.

Jason: I was at best. I'm, you know, even money here, but there was a lot in the pot. So I was just calculating the pot odds while I was making my decision. You were like, which is usually me, I'm usually the one being reprimanded. But I listen, I love you guys the most.

Chamath: Why don't you tell people that there's no comments?

Jason: And just as a programming note, we turned off comments for a couple of weeks on the YouTube channel just to see how it affects us psychologically.

Jason: I'm off to mess around with all you Brigadooners, we love you, besties. This has been a great episode two, great and his Twitter is at [mention], and he doesn't read.

Friedberg: I just voted against turning off comments.

Jason: In favor of whatever got Chamath's vote for the oil and summit 23. So that's how I know this is horse trading now, but the podcast has never been better. Besties spending time together on the slopes is the cure to all evils. We'll see you next time. Bye bye.

Chamath: Bye bye, guys.